That’s bizarre to me how do you possibly rely on conferences so I so I guess this so I guess this is where you say the ranking is important.
It’s probably because it's what they're used to doing. I find people like me might use things like conferences, well, I don't go to conferences anymore. I think that the younger guys like name, I talk to him about the way he looks stuff up, but he's much more Google-ish than I am. I would say for me it's regularly monthly or weekly, and I'm searching for things different from what I used to search for.
Yeah, I think that for a lot of people it’s whatever they're used to, whatever's easier. We all have time constraints. It’s a matter of saying whatever gives me the information quickly. Things like C&E News is great. It's a couple weeks out of date in the overall scheme of things but it's good for us. We also have a fellow at the University of Delaware who sends out a weekly bulletin and a lot of us in the field subscribe. 
I like C&E News because I look at things that I wouldn't normally look at. My training is in biochemistry, but now I teach the analytical labs so I am learning to find things in different places.
  it’s simple - simplicity
I think the best thing about the email alerts is you don’t have to go anywhere else and you’re constantly checking your email -  I could never figure out how to use the RSS feed so I just have  journals and I go to their homepage and go to their ASAP and check. I’ll do that while having my coffee every couple of days
so, one, in terms of the alerts, you can get sent the TOC but that doesn’t necessarily mean you are getting the ASAPs so I do use SciFinder - has the “keep me posted” but by an author and then anytime something shows up in SciFinder by that author you are alerted and I just tend to have the luxury of time at this point in my career to just browse for things of interest
I use RSS feeds, it depends, for whatever reason the RSS feed does not work for Angewandte or at least I could not get it to work so I get the email one from that and I get the TOC from that – it is all about the graphics, right? Because you have some fraction of second when looking at an abstract and deciding if you are going to read it or not, and so if it has a DNA strand in it, I’ll probably delete it immediately, or if it is surface science unless it is something catchy in the title but probably not.
So, I basically do the same thing as, I probably could but I have not bothered to try out the RSS feed so I go on the website and scroll down through the papers
the advantage to that is that you do get backed up quite easily – I must have about  feeds from the RSS feeds that I haven’t looked at yet. And it is trying to find the time just to do that.
the good thing is that you can do it on your phone
going to a journal website on your phone is harder
that is why emails are easier
have you ever used Feedly? Feedly is an app for RSS feeds, it is quite good so you can do it on your phone or on your tablet, so at night when I can’t fall asleep I look at eh abstracts and get all those out of the way.
I forgot about this but just remembered there is an ACS mobile and RSC mobile basically
I had those too but don’t use them.
I had them a little while but realized it was not worth reading on this.
I used the ACS mobile called ACS-to-go now - if you are on your phone and trying to look up the table of contents and you go to the JACS website, it automatically goes into that mode so that is what I will do down in the NMR spectrometer room because that is one thing that I guess works in terms of viewing the ASAPs. So, I am not always right up to date but with the “just accepted” – it helps to be just that much more on top of things.
CIS- but the ACS is just so fast from going from the “just accepted” to “in print” anyways, it doesn’t make any difference, right?
it is Angewandte and Chemistry the European journal – the Wiley journals – Angewandte is not so bad but Chemistry is from accepted to in print is  months - yeah, it’s ridiculous.
At least one of the projects I am working on right now – someone had a review open down in the NMR room and I scrolled down someone else’s open review and I found a compound and I was “I should try to make that” and that is how I started one of my projects – it does happen. I don’t think is the right way to approach it – shouldn’t rely on serendipity, you shouldn’t be “I will wait till I bump into something”
at the CSC meeting name was talking about some idea he had by looking up a paper and it was in the previous one – him telling that story, I certainly remember that happening to me when I used to do this riffled a journal issueall the  time, you flip through the pages and you think, what?, and you find something that you weren’t looking for and you wouldn’t have picked up if you didn’t see the figure in the hard copy – you wouldn’t pick it up from the title if you just read the title or the TOC.
if it wasn’t one of the main compounds but something they made on the side.
No, it might have been a precursor to other stuff but I could use it for something else
and there is no way you would make the mental connection between that compound and the title  
ResearchGate sends you a notification when your work is cited that are in their database but Web of science would be more comprehensive.  They rely on other members posting to it.
Somewhere though I get notices all the time that they found papers but I don't know where they come from or that it's legal after all ACS owns all the copyrights
but usually if you are not on the U of T wireless and you go home and try to open one of the papers - you can’t.
you have to be on VPN
I think it quite important to rely on colleagues and students to forward news of interest - if I see something I certainly send it on and it’s helpful and a two-way street.
and when you are a new grad student it is even more important since you don’t know what names to look up and senior grad students and postdocs in subgroup meetings will say this is related to this person’s work and that will trigger you to go look in that direction - so here they don’t specifically send out papers but throw around names, etc./
responding to the comment/question “…do any colleagues outside the university send you papers and say look this is cool! or is it very much “my research - stay away!; Name sends me papers all the time - all his! (laughter) On occasion though more common with collaborators, in fact it is more likely for me to see a paper that is interesting and write to the author to say congratulations or I liked your paper or whatever - it is more likely for me to interact that way than to get a paper the other way.
It depends on access first-of-all, you should have access, we have access to so many sources, for instance, this depends on what kind of journals you are looking for.
Convenience and familiarity with whatever the source happens to be.
Depends on the field of research. 
Some databases like SciFinder and Reaxys, you can look for whatever reaction you want to do, find transformations and get the information. For some databases that are just journal databases, you can just search by keyword, however, some databases are easier to draw your structure.
That’s a complicated question… because that does not quite ask you why would we use conferences more than blogs. Blogs are useless in my opinion. I would not look at them at all. The kind of information I want to find is not in there. Right? In conferences …. If I go and see something like… “Oh, he can do that?” Like I didn’t know… that’s useful for what I’m doing… I find information regularly at conferences that’s useful for me…
I think it’s the ease of access… For me… why I would use one source more than another… Is if I trust a source… is always a factor… but then the other one is also ease of access… So, for example I’m on Google Scholar but it gives you automatic updates on interesting… interesting … in your research field. So, I use that every now and then and that means I’ll check if someone cited me and I’ll just find this automatically … so ease of access for me why I would use one source over any other. Um… and then… trusting that source is the other question. 
Um… that’s the reason I don’t look at blogs. It’s not just they don’t have stuff I find… but even if they did have … would I trust it? I don’t even know how do to twitter. 
So, it’s probably age… Old people don’t know how to use Twitter…
 …if it's easy and quick. C&E News it's usually lying around on my husband's desk and I pick it up.
 It's pretty much whatever works.
one thing that is interesting in how the choices get made and in relation to the serendipity I don’t do it anymore because I let the membership lapse but when you are a member of ACS they send you C&EN news whether you ask for it or not. When I was a grad student I would have a train ride so I would read C&EN news on that. It’s kind of like the flipping because if it is a title you would not usually read otherwise, a short little synopsis, you end up reading about all sorts of things you wouldn’t otherwise get the connections in
I get C&EN news every week. To be honest I don’t flip through it anymore - I click on the concentrates because the rest is a lot more industrially oriented and more engineering oriented as well sometimes.
Responding to the comment/question “…would it be more useful if there was more chemistry in C&EN news because it is awfully business and industry oriented?” is it reflective of their membership – they would get flack if they deviate from that. And it is a very American magazine – it is oriented very much to the American policies and the whole profit thing.
responding to comment about other magazines including Chemistry World I get hat one since I am affiliated with the RSC – it’s interesting reading everyone in a while
I’m not sure – it’s kind of like what is the Canadian one is called? the Canadian CSC – they used to have print but they don’t anymore – it has limited value – it is to a very narrow audience like the American one and the German one is in German but some are bilingual
I read when I was on the train ride but when you mention if we should have it – when I am sitting at my desk that time is more valuably spent accessing the other sources of chemical information – these are ok if I am having lunch at the table note several the news magazines we are discussing are sitting in the middle of the table in the group room
use multiple …depending upon the goal of my search, whether I’m trying to follow what’s going on out there, or if I have a specific goal.
For example, if you say email alerts, whatever article I publish, and I keep an email alert in case someone in future references this article, so immediately I will find this article, depends on your purpose.
Trust.
Trust… and research interest also. 
Trust… and maybe some funding… When we want to go to a conference… we will need a funding… and spend money. I received and e-mail every day… it’s from…  
You notice what’s not there in that list? Reading the journals. It’s not one of the options in the list. When I was a grad student that’s what I did. I was told read these five journals every issue. That’s how you keep up on… it’s not even one of the choices anymore. 
the news magazines… or … 
responding to a comment on tables of contents Yeah, but JACS is not a news magazine… it’s 
 a scientific journal…
 …A scientific journal… … journals are not in one of the choices… 
And I use Green Chem fairly regularly just to keep up to date… and they send e-mails… 
I do still look at that one… But lots of journals. I just don’t read them any more… cause there’s just too many. I just think it’s kind of funny that what used to be the standard way to keep up with what’s new isn’t even a choice anymore. 
It’s not that they’re becoming unbundled… it’s that there are too many… I now get in my e-mail box every day invitations to about five conferences and about five journals and it’s like screw you guys and it’s like delete, delete, delete… and probably one of those in there is a legitimate conference invitation and I’m just deleting it. But the journals are just the same thing… Wouldn’t you love to submit to this Bentham journal and as soon as I see the word Bentham I delete. 
responding to a comment that time is a factor Yeah… I would never submit a paper to Bentham because I don’t trust them. 
And they send those e-mails to everybody. I’m getting two or three a day as well. And they’ll be from Hindi or something? 
Hindawi.
And okay… okay… they’ve got impact factors nowadays…  or . or whatever it happens to be but it’s…  
It’s better than ChemSusChem intelligible. Laughter
And it’s… but they’ll send out to me… and I’m a process chemists… wouldn’t you love to publish or submit an article for MedChem? 
Or Psychology Today. 
O yes… Psychology Today! Or… Civil Engineering… 
And if you submit to our journal you can publish within one month or two month.
It’s not trusting. 
And I think adding to the question about how you make these choices… not why but how you make… it’s by attrition. Right? I used to read the journals and then I couldn’t do it anymore because I just didn’t have time. So, that fell by the wayside, not because I decided that it was a bad thing … I simply didn’t have the time for it anymore… I felt guilty for a few years… but then it’s not even worth feeling guilty about anymore. 
And so, things like RSS feeds… Many years ago, I went through a very painful procedure to try to get those things to work… they worked for a little while and then it stopped working and I’ve never gone back and tried to get it working again. And it’s probably not that hard… but it’s inertia… I’m so incredibly busy and have so little time that taking the time to figure out how to get an RSS feed working again and have it stay working is too daunting. So, I just don’t do it. So, I think we make these choices by attrition rather than by wisdom. 
And like the regular monthly database searching. I would call it irregular searching… like when we start a project and are about to finish a project… we do a thorough search. Like by SciFinder of what’s been done… and starting projects… we don’t start a project, of course, and then right before you publish to make sure that someone hasn’t published in the meantime and to make sure your references are all up to date and that kind of thing. But I don’t do regularly monthly searching in a database… It’s more about irregular searching.
responding to a comment that journal alerts may be a useful strategy to keeping up to date I don’t… not anymore. Um… I think I rely very heavily on the colleagues and students and so forth… and talking in the lab and chatting to people in the fields. And I think a lot of people do that more than they think they do… because, for example, Philip and I were having a chat today… I do a lot more process chemistry than most people… I’m more of a chemical engineering these days than a chemist. And there’s certain pieces of equipment which I know exist that even somebody who is considered a very, very good process chemist such as Philip is unaware of at this point in time. Because these things have gotten so far ahead in a different way… and they’ve fallen by the wayside and people. So, because I am working in the field I know of their existence… and the different specialized fittings… Um… so we rely a lot more than we think we do on students and colleagues and it may not even be represented in your system because we don’t think of it being a source. 
responding to a comment on the value of human networking Um, yeah. 
So right now, I send out, irregularly, a list of all papers to do with CO responsive materials. So, I’m checking all over the place just to collect a list of titles, just the titles… cause once you get the title you can search very easily on Google. Right? Titles of articles or patents on that topic… And I keep this list. And when anyone tells me about a title, I’ll add it to the list. And every few months or so I’ll send an e-mail with the latest list to everybody and say here’s what was published on that topic or that field in the past three months. Right… so that’s a service I’m doing for everybody else that I know of. 
I think the other answer to the question why we use one more than another is because we’re getting different kinds of information. Like for the C&E News and Chemistry World I would not look in there for things like “has anybody ever used our catalyst for this particular reaction?” You’re not going to find it in there. That’s what you use SciFinder for… or Reaxys. But you might find things in there like people have found a better way to ah… ah… analyze the surface of gold monolayers. I didn’t know you could do that. That’s cool. Right? I may or maybe not actually going to use that in my lab, but I’ve learned something more, right? About more general things and much more interdisciplinary stuff in C&E News and Chemistry World. So, we need more than one source because we need more than one kind of information.
They are ones I've never heard of before. I never heard of arrives or Reaxys, but I guess that’s because, if it’s Beilstein, that’s because it’s organic chemistry reactions and I would never have seen them. But I just discovered Web of Science; it's great, I love it. I’m trying to teach my students how to figure out what journals are reasonable because they write lab reports and must cite stuff and they want to know… they add chloride ions to electro-deposition of copper. They type that into Google and the first thing that comes up is what they look at and what they reference. They have no clue how to figure out whether that journal is reputable or that they just look it up on Wikipedia and just copy the references from Wikipedia. I don't know, but I think that the Science Citation Index system is good for them to learn how to use 
Historically the ACS has got whatever SciFinder came from...basic Chem Abs and another one online. It had some other name before SciFinder….
responding to a comment about STN That's what we started using as chemists and that’s because it's ACS which makes perfect sense that we use it. We also use Reaxys and that's for specific bits of data, if you want to have an NMR or something you can find that I find a lot more easily on Reaxys then using SciFinder. There's basically nothing on SciFinder, it's not complete, but it gives you get -plus of what you need to find.
If you want something specific then goggle scholar is sometimes the first one I go to – if I am looking up names and part of a title and maybe a year because sometimes it is quicker. If I want NMR data I go Reaxys. If I want specific compounds I go SciFinder scholar and then broad topics if google scholar is not working for me then it is WOS but I don’t use the other ones.
I use SciFinder a lot, I guess, but I use web of science to find references inside Endnote but that is usually because I am looking for the paper because I want to cite it
that is a very targeted – you already know what you are looking for
responding to a comment that some strategies are very targeted, you already know what you are looking for yeah, or I know it is by a certain author – I just need to find the specific paper to reference
I think I agree with, I use SciFinder for just about everything
for drawing stuff
Especially when you are drawing stuff which is mostly how I am looking up a specific compound and that is usually what I am looking up until I start getting the papers. I don’t use google scholar but I do use google so if I know the title…
but then it goes to google scholar straightaway as soon as you type in anything exotic that Joe Q Public wouldn’t search
I am probably with them with SciFinder but WOS is good for finding references but what goes with that too is background research it’ll just take you from one paper to the next that are good so that is good but I don’t use it as often as SciFinder
responding to Reaxys as a database of choice} I’ve never used it
I use it if I am doing a synthesis and I want to find out how to make a molecule for their strategy planning
responding to ChemSpider the brits are always on about “do you use it?”
that is more like physical properties and things
responding to the CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics I don’t even think it links of papers where you can synthesize things - it is just physical properties
apparently, the ACS is talking about a database that would hold all the SI spectra (supporting information) that you would see in a paper – put all that into a database. So, when you look up a compound you would not just get the chemical shift but get the physical spectrum be linked. It’s kind of like the x-ray database, right? You get the raw data
like .cif – it would definitely help in regards to making a lot of jobs at ACS if they have to deconstruct every SI and .tiff the images.
that would be a lot of work – they can’t have one guy clicking through – must be able to automate
undergrads…
they need to find jobs for all the people that graduate!
one thing I found web of science very helpful for was this is slight more in searching (or maybe it is) when writing a review, it was good in being able to take a reference and then you could go through all the references that it lists and things that cited it and go backwards in fact. And forwards and so you could get fairly good coverage over the impact the paper had moving forward
do you ever use ACS Worx?
I hadn’t but I had a friend…
I played around with it but there is one from Nature called Cube?
ReadCube?
it’s kind of the same thing – you can pull in a paper and the click on all the references and you can follow backwards. It seemed like a lot of work
this is the thing for any kind of innovative technology it has got to be easier for the end user otherwise poof…if it is more work for me than I am not going to use it and, to be honest, I have been using Endnote for  years and that is why I don’t change
it’s total bullshit as far as I am concerned
no, supposedly with OneDrive where you can have everything on line and have multiple people seeing the same document, but I don’t know, when we edit a manuscript we send it back and forth – we track the changes and then we can figure out what stays and what goes
which also the best way to do it because when one person is editing it they are looking at THAT draft of the paper and making those changes.
it is hard to read a document that has multiple tracks in it – if you sent it through  or  people…it is really hard to read through because this is crossed out and then there is a new line and then  more words crossed out and then there is another  lines added…just accept it all and NOW I can read it.
The one I use more often is SciFinder because I am more familiar with it, it’s the one I first learned how to use and so I am most comfortable with it and that’s probably why I tend to use that one. I do use Reaxys, Web of Science and Google as well, but SciFinder is the one I encountered first and have the most experience with. It depends, sometimes I’ll use SciFinder and then use another one to make sure I’ve caught everything realizing that not all the databases capture the same information.
For myself, to compare sometime, in SciFinder just to see if there is any difference, sometime like articles they are providing and if I am searching for something …SciFinder may be citing many patents, but Reaxys may be citing research articles - just to see the difference and curiosity.
I guess with Reaxys, it is convenient, but the coverage is not as comprehensive as SciFinder, so if I’m just trying to look for, for example, to make a compound that’s not very complicated I will go for something that is convenient such as Reaxys, but if I wanted to be sure about historical coverage I would go for SciFinder, but Web of Science is obviously where I can put in three key words which is very good.
In the literature, most of the time they show SciFinder for research service, like how many articles published.
For me it is familiarity.
For comparison.
For purpose.
I don’t even know what arXiv is… but PubMed I’ve seen it once or twice but never used it. Reaxys I use a lot … well, I used to use a lot… 
If I want to find out who cited my papers I use Web of Science. If I want to find out if anybody is published the C- NMR of my compound in ? DSO I’ll use Reaxys. If I want out if anybody has published use of CO to catalyze reactions of algae, I’ll look in SciFinder. Right? They all have their uses and you can’t do that topic search in Reaxys or Web of Science as far as I know…. I’ve never tried. And you can’t use Reaxys to find out who cited my papers, right? You have to use several of these because they do different things. I once wanted to find out… ah… I needed an alkene that had a melting point between  and  degrees. That’s all… I didn’t care about the rest of the molecule… I needed an alkene in that mp range. And Reaxys can do that… None of the others can do that. You put in CC double bond and alkyl groups and hydrogens in the rest of the four positions and you put mp - and you hit search and it tells you in  seconds. So, you have to have a bunch of them… you can’t just stick to one. 
The other thing to add to that comment is that I’ll use Web of Science, SciFinder and Google Scholar if I’m trying to search for if somebody has published in X field. I’ll use all three… and the reason being that you’ll find a different answer from each of those three always. You can never get all the papers from Google Scholar, you’ll never get deep enough into it. You can never find enough from SciFinder and I may not have access through SciFinder to specific journals or articles that I can then get on Google Scholar once I’ve found it… and then Web of Science is wonderful for its ability to use if/and scores to specify down and you find other journals or articles again that can be both older or newer than SciFinder or Google Scholar can find for you. So, using one at any one time… You can hurt yourself… you can lose stuff. 
I feel more confident. I’m never actually confident… Never confident… You’re always going to forget one reference that the one reviewer is going to be the author of and you won’t find it. 
People don’t word their titles carefully. If I’m looking for supercritical CO as a keyword in a title and that author chose to call it compressed CO I’m not going to find that paper. And so, I teach my students to word the title and your abstract carefully so that any keyword people are likely to be using to do their searches… you’ve got it at least somewhere in your abstract or title. So if you’re doing supercritical CO make sure that’s in either the title or abstract. Otherwise they’re never going to find your paper and they won’t cite it because they don’t know about it. But not everybody follows that… so you could do all these techniques to search for papers and still miss that one because they chose to call it compressed CO. 
And as a prime example, one of our papers is likely to run into that issue because Philip is good enough on the physical chemistry side to know that it’s not expanded methanol but methanol-CO mixtures but everybody in the field that isn’t Philip or in Philip’s lab is going to call it expanded methanol because they just don’t know the difference.
responding to a question do yo use or like IUPAC guidelines? If IUPAC has declared a rule on it, you follow the IUPAC rule, preferably. But there are a lot of terms out there like expanded liquids that IUPAC has never ruled on, right? So you find, you know, how is it defined in the most relevant review papers… and people say here’s the phase diagram for CO-methanol mixtures… This region on the binary phase… this expanded liquids… expanded methanol in this case. Right? And so then it gives you the definition… It has to be below this temperature… that critical temperature has to be higher than the boiling curve…whatever. That gives you the meaning, right? And if it’s in the leading review paper in the field that gives you the authority to say that’s what that means. But not everybody is going to do that. You’re going to say, well I think it’s expanded liquids so I’m going to call it expanded liquid. And actually they’re on the wrong part of the phase diagram. 
And then on top of that the other problem we’ve run into… another journal article we are publishing right now where the phase separation…everyone assumes a phase separation at room temperature and overtakes to the top level and so when we say that we have two phases everybody in the literature is saying that’s not actually the case. And only if you’ve been working in the field reading those review articles… understand the phase distribution systems can you actually understand that that’s the case. And so choosing your keywords becomes very difficult to actually get ? to be seen.
People make mistakes about the terminology and that makes it harder for people to search accurately. 
Which is part of the advantage of Google Scholar, actually. In that its algorithms for searching are so much broader in terms of the results that sometimes you find those ones that have used either the more precise or much less precise terminology that you wouldn’t find using Web of Science or SciFinder because the SciFinder one is being very, very specific to that one word that you used and as such they used a slightly different term for the exact same thing and you can’t find it. So that’s why I always add Google Scholar to my searches because while you have to dig a little bit deeper through the , pages of stuff you get you sometimes find those journal articles that you’ve missed if you stick with more, more… 
Google Scholar’s better than Web of Science because it has more things that it searches like books… and the more obscure journals are not in Web of Science but they are in Google Scholar. And so if I want to in my annual report say how many times I was cited last year or on my resume or on a grant proposal I always use the numbers from Google Scholar because they’re larger than the numbers from Web of Science. 
And from Google Scholar you can find the very new paper. I mean the paper just accepted. But you can’t find this kind of paper from Web of Science sometimes.
That I don't really use them 
I think that most chemists that I speak with don't trust patents in general. If you're looking for information, if you need to keep up-to-date within your field, if you are doing some of these nano things where there is lot of development happening, then you would need to keep up, but if you are just looking for information, the patent literature is not going to help you.
responding to a comment of not trusting patents What it means is that if you look for information where you need to reproduce a procedure that is in a patent, chances are that it's unlikely that you will be able to reproduce it.
It's a combination of things, some of it's also just phony.
Because lots of times patents are trying to be as broad as can be while still maintaining legality. I have seen plenty of patents where they're claiming many different compounds that they claim they have made, and you know there is no possible way that they could do that all in a couple years. All they're doing is actually putting in lots of different states—the word was unclear to me-- to cover what they need to cover in case something else becomes an important drug or whatever. They are notorious for having irreproducible results…..One wants to just keep up with what's going on, what’s going to be the latest and greatest, that they think is going to be important in the field (which doesn't necessarily mean it's going to pan out either). People like Apple put out a lot of patents, a lot of what they think might be the future in the field, and doesn't turn out to be true at all.
They're just covering what they think might come around. Then there are companies that bought up early Blackberry patents which costs billion dollars. BlackBerry, RIM at the time, spent to buy the rights to a particular patent that was filed three years ago.
You would think that the people who use the patent information are doing it to make sure that what they are trying to patent has not been patented already.
So name dispute becomes a….
…or even in someone's group where they actually patent left and right, developing new technologies to sell…
…and that's what I meant by the nano people doing a lot of that right now filing for patents. Industry people are patenting things left and right because they feel that it might be useful at some stage, so it's all about money.
I was interested to actually see these results. A good percentage of scientists generally don't regularly search for patents. Eighty-one percent just don't use them. I subscribe to a weekly patents thing; each week they send me new patents in my field. I'm not quite sure how I got subscribed to that.
…I glance at them if there is something that catches my interest. I look, but % of the time I hit delete, but it's there if you want to look at it. I don't trust them enough to make it worthwhile to even look at them.
What often happens, if we do use SciFinder, some of the hits will be patents. SciFinder seems to have that well covered.
responding to a comment that SciFinder is a familiar database That's right, it covers it, although there's some deal where you don't get access to all of the patents and you can only see the abstract, or you can see six patents or something like that,  and then you have to subscribe to something else.
responding to a comment about PatentPak The truth is I look up maybe three a year. Is it annual it?
responding to PatentPak limit of free viewable patents So that's what I saw when I was clicking on things. Once again, the reality is that there were so few that it doesn't make any difference. If you really want it you will order it. It sounds as if one gets it free anyway. 
responding to a comment that chemists and database providers push patents …that's not true ….You know, in a sense, it should be because the latest developments are covered in patents, but because they're commercial in nature there's a distrust amongst academics of what exactly is going on in the real world. We publish things because we think it's going to be important to other scientists, whereas the patents are issued because people want to make money.
if they were easier to read or easier to open?
they are not so much scientific as legal documents
and legalese is a whole other language
and also if the science was real – this is the hardest part – you claim (I have written patents) you claim everything under the sun can be X but it is really hard to go through a  page patent and find out what they actually made – not so easy – really tough. It is useful if you are trying to figure out whether you want to patent your own technology – then you have to know – you have to take the time to go through it. In terms of learning scientific information…not so much.
responding to Reaxys and data, SciFinder pushing patenpak but this is a commercial operation targeting their corporate audience who will pay big bucks to avoid hiring some patent agent to do it.
responding to a comment about the usefulness of patents not when it comes to research
I guess it depends on the nature of the research. The research that happens in our lab will get patented but it will almost invariably also appear in the scientific literature also so if you look up those authors you will find what they wrote. So in some of the fields like the nanotechnology or solar energy will only appear in the patent literature because they don’t care about publishing – they want to start a company and make some money! So some grad studies in say nanotechnology they have some advancements are not recorded in peer review literature so you have to treat that suspect fully since it has not undergone that level of review.
so it depends on the field to some extent.
responding to a comment about tripping on a patent and seeing whether you would look at it You would be more likely to take the authors names and do a search for a publication
and then if you can’t find one, you might struggle through but not for too long.
No, to be honest, I probably learn more patent info directly from industry – they will say, are you aware of this? If it is a collaboration and you are trying to develop some IP intellectual property for them then they will stay on top of the patent literature and make you aware
responding to using Google patents no
is Espacenet more comprehensive though?
because I needed to find some Korean patents once and I couldn’t find them through google patents
the other problem I have had whenever I have had to find a patent was they were in a different language - a problem was that they were just not translated and that was the only copy of the patent I was able to find so that is one more hurdle that makes it not usable
yes, unless it is German and then you can find someone in here
responding to a comment that chemists should be able to translate patents in the olden days there used to be a language requirement for PhDs
the old olden days…
no not so old!
recently I had to find a patent – it was how to make a commercially available starting material – so I found the patent on SciFinder and it wouldn’t open up with PatentPak so I copied and pasted the title into google and found it that way
I think only the Chinese one showed up
maybe you would get a different perspective on patents if you talk to the people in material chemistry or drug discovery
that was some the early Platinum compounds – there are no papers on them, the earliest – there were no papers till  years later – they were first published in patents
responding the challenge I would use patents more if …patents are peer reviewed
responding the challenge I would use patents more if …not so convoluted to read, for me a lot of it is, we read patents and try to reproduce things that aren’t chemically possible, so it’s, you can patent with a good lawyer a wide array of things that have not necessarily been supported with evidence.
…it comes down to the scientific validity of patents which in many cases are questionable and plus, there are complex to follow. 
Please comment on the observation that database providers and chemistry librarians push patents and feel they are important, but this survey shows that some chemists think otherwise
I’m not sure chemists necessarily think that patents are not as important, in so much as chemists tend to look at the literature as a better, more easy to access source of information, or if they are not necessarily in areas that might have intellectual property that is worth patenting themselves, they may not be searching it. For me, we file (or suggest to the university) different patents, so we are constantly looking at the patent literature to make sure we are not infringing and that there is no prior art we need to worry about. Not sure whether it is an importance of thing, rather where chemists would rather go for information. 
In my opinion they are important means when you want to patent something in that case you will search for patents. 
Patents are important resources when looking for patentability. Some patents especially from pharmaceutical companies, many of those patents are quit irreproducible in terms of procedure, but equally, many others are not so much.
responding to a comment that % of survey participants said that they don’t regularly search for patents Fools!
One of the biggest projects in my group…
Patent information is not clear. I realize that certain patents information is not clear. 
One of the biggest projects in my group…we’ve never actually published a paper on it… we’ve only published patents. We actually have four patents out of it… and not a single paper. 
…not so common in academia. 
I will admit that I don’t do regular searches for patents. I would put myself in that  percent category. But I’ve never discounted it as a literature source. So by using those three sources of literature including Google Scholar or Google itself I’ll pick up the patent… sometimes relevant.
SciFinder includes patents. If you do a search on SciFinder you are searching patents, right? 
Okay.
Unless you specifically chose not to have patents appear in your results. 
I’ve never discounted any literature. 
responding to a question “So if a patent comes up in your search results you will take a look at it? I will take a look through if I feel it’s relevant. I don’t treat it as a non-source of literature. I treat it as the same level as an article. It’s always a little more difficult to read them and ah… in the fields that I’ve been looking in they haven’t come up as regularly. 
commenting on observations about content in SciFinder and Google Scholar Well, it already costs a lot anyways… so if they add more it will cost even more. I think there are other changes that are needed to SciFinder other than that. No, I was comparing Web of Science to Google Scholar… Google Scholar contains books, chapters, whereas Web of Science doesn’t. Therefore the numbers in Google Scholar are better. Higher. 
responding to a comment that web of science should include coverage of books Yes… but then I don’t feel that I want them to do that because I’m already getting that service from Google Scholar. So I just stop using Web of Science for that purpose. If somebody else is covering it why would we want them to do exactly the same thing? Like I don’t feel a need for SciFinder… or at least until recently… didn’t feel a need for SciFinder to do some of those fancy search functions that we had in Reaxys. Because Reaxys is already doing it why do we need SciFinder to do it? 
responding to a comment that SciFinder should be a first patent search choice because of the extent of patent coverage Yeah and the patent agents at GreenCentre if they’re trying to find a patent the first thing they go to is SciFinder. They have other things too, but that’s always their first one. 
I think the problem with patents and maybe the answer to your question “I would use patents more often if…” There are two problems with patents… One is what name already mentioned that they are really painful to read laughter but the other problem is that it’s harder to get them. Like if I find in SciFinder that there is a JACS article that is relevant it’s really easy to get it. Right? These days it’s only a couple of clicks and you’ve got it right in front of you. But if it’s a patent… sometimes it’s more difficult to get it. Like a PDF copy of it. And sometimes it’s these really annoying web pages where you can see it but it won’t let you download it or maybe it’s one page per click, right? So patents are a pain in the butt sometimes.
It’s always the next page that has the information you want.
It’s  pages and you have to click through them one at a time. laughter And the other problem is that I don’t trust patents as much in terms of reliability of the content. Um… when I worked in Japan one of my supervisors told me, “Oh, make up any number for that… don’t bother doing any experiments… make up a number”. And I said, “that’s unethical”. And he said, “Oh it doesn’t matter… it’s just a patent.” laughter So it’s like… at least some people in the world have this attitude that accuracy… scientific accuracy and rigor in patents doesn’t matter. It’s only in papers that it matters. 
responding to an observation that patents are based on patent laws, not the validity of their scientific content . percent of chemists are stupid. laughter
If it was easier to read. If it was easier to read, I’d do it. There’s no answer to that… It’s all based on the patent law. They have to have it in this format which is just dull, boring… horrible. It’s just so hard to kind of understand what they’re trying to get at half the time. It’s the way they have to be written. I understand that. I’d use them more if I could actually understand them. I don’t know what the hell they are saying half the time. 
I think when you start your project you want to figure out what I want to do… and maybe the patent is useful… but after you start your project… I want to know how I can do this…. I want to search the method… I think the patent is not very good for this. 
The one good thing about patents… other than you might find information that is not in a paper… is in terms of the quality of the writing… they are better at one thing and that is the clarity of the experimental description… In a paper they’ll say things like “and used the usual workup”… Thanks a lot! That’s not very clear. In a patent they can’t do that… because the patent will get thrown out if they’re that unclear. They have to really spell things out because that’s a requirement of patent law. And so if you want a clearer description of how to do an experiment… a patent is actually better than a paper often. 
Except it’s harder to read it. Because it’s so much more in depth. You spend a hell of a lot more time…
But when you find that paragraph… Finding is the hard part…
Finding… 
So once you found the paragraph it said “you take a mm long stir bar and you put it into a  mil round bottom flask with two openings of this size and this size”… it’s all spelled out in excruciating detail… so you don’t have to figure out what does it mean the standard workup… they always really spell the whole thing out. And I like that part of it. But the rest of patents are a pain to read.
And you have to find that paragraph. 
Yeah.
I wonder how many of that . realized that when they do a SciFinder search they are searching patents? 
The majority of chemists are stupid... laughter
responding to a question whether something could be done in education to address patent literacy? Sure… partly… but I think you can’t automatically assume that the chemists are wrong and the librarians are right. It depends on the field. If you’re doing DFT computational methods for calculating transition state energies… Nobody ever patents that stuff… Right? It’s all very basic research. And so you know even before searching that there’s going to be nothing in the patent literature of interest to you. So that kind of a chemist would be totally legit to say I’m going to ignore all patent literature. So some percentage… it should not be zero… it should be a larger percentage of chemists should indeed be ignoring the patent literature. That percentage is probably not as high as . percent… but there is some fraction of that population that is quite legit in ignoring the patent literature. 
And it comes up in all fields of chemistry. It’s not just computational chemistry that has that. Because there’s certain areas of process chemistry … we know what we’re doing… we’re just improving on an existing thing… there’s certain areas of organic chemistry… it’s the same thing… we know that the end compound is useful… we’re just improving two or three steps. It’s not necessarily patentable… or it could be? And computation chemistry… some areas can be patentable and so areas aren’t. It’s very specific to the project or field. 
And there’s also the part of the educational aspect… there is a lot of chemists that never really learned about patents. So they don’t know what is patentable and what’s not. And what kind of information is likely to be found in a patent… because they never really read them very much. So they might be assuming incorrectly that their field is outside of patent literature and there’s nothing in the patent literature that worth looking at. Where in fact there might be… because what is patentable and what is not I found is a skill that takes some learning and the average academic chemist has not had that learning. So they may not realize that there might be useful information in the patent literature. And that’s not something you can slip in to a ten-minute add-on to a lecture in an undergrad course. That’s actually quite a bit of learning required to understand what is patentable what is not… what kind of information you can find in patents… what you cannot. 
responding to a challenge that researchers should check patent citations similar to journal citations I don’t know how to find out if my patents have been cited. I don’t think that’s in Google Scholar. 
I don’t know. I don’t think so either. 
I track… every few months I’ll update my Excel spreadsheet of all my papers and 
There is a way to find out? Cool. That project where we had all patents and no papers… we’re not being cited, I don’t think. Cause I’ve read some papers who has done work later … more recently on that topic and they don’t cite our patent even though we’re the first ones that ever did it. 
They’re chemists are not checking the patent literature. 
I think because the amount of data is flowing…. so we're looking at volume and entries in SciFinder and Chem Abs as increasing pretty much at an exponential rate, so trying to keep up with it is, I think, near impossible regardless of what feed you have, how you try to keep up with things and being very conscientious compared to what it was like even a few years ago. It's a lot more difficult to do and anybody who thinks they are keeping on top of everything right now is, I think, deluding themselves. 
There are so many journals too, there are a lot of them we sort of dismiss, but there's still, every once in a while,  something worthwhile… so it's hard. I don't keep up with it all especially because I'm still processing on how to change fields.
But just trying to keep up is a lot more difficult than it used to be. 
I think it sheer volume that is the issue
also it depends on the graduate student – some you need to keep right on top because you are venturing into a new area
the tendency with graduate students is to read the literature that is directly relevant ot their project as opposed to “read the literature” I am guilty of it myself – I probably read more broadly than my graduate students – but I wouldn’t say I read as broadly as B. .
no one reads as broadly as B. M.!!
B. knows everything (laughter)
responding to conferences and presentations you may get a different snapshot of things but they are not a good way to keep up to date – as a student you are not going to conferences that often
the point of going to conferences is the networking and personal contact with colleagues. Yes, we do this under the guise of presenting a scientific paper and it is often interesting to see what your colleagues are doing but I don’t think the purpose of them is to stay current
but they certainly good for inspiration but you are only seeing maybe  or  talks
I used to come back depressed all the time – when I was a junior faculty and went to a big shot’s talk I would think I can never be that good, how can I compete and would be depressed for a week
now you are making other people depressed!!
responding to presenting at conferences and creating a paper beforehand less and less.. you see stuff that people have published or it’s in the pipeline, but it is very rare that you see things that are this is what we are doing and this is where we are going because people don’t want to give that stuff away
in some way you are tipping your hand if you do
for an ACS meeting the abstract submission is  to  months before the meeting and you are going to be presenting stuff that was done half a year prior
so Gordon conferences they try to keep it a little bit smaller and the abstract deadline is many  weeks,  weeks, maybe a month before
there is a lot more discussion there too at a Gordon conference than at an ACS meeting
and it is my impression that it is more expected that you are going to present something newer that has not been published – more cutting edge
also because you know more of the people in the room you are not worried about people scooping you or stealing your ideas
Everyone has their own specific filed of research. Chemists are generally up to date in this field. For example, if you are working in nucleic acid research, I know the journals for research and publishing, I’m up to date with these journals, also we have mobile apps, immediately we are getting information from all these journals. There may be very interesting discovery in other fields, but you may go for news and you come to know, otherwise you are not up to date. 
There is a lot of information and areas you can disseminate that information, so even the breadth of journals, you’ve got different publishing houses, plus societies that all have their own suite of journals, gone are the days when there were six journals everyone published in, you could find everything, and so there are a lot of things you just might not come across that are equally valuable, there is a lot of information, plus a lot of places to send it. 
This has become mission impossible given the amount of information out there, it’s just not possible to keep up to date with everything, if you are keeping current in your research area you are doing well. 
we don’t have time to do that searching and analyzing the current literature any more.
Time is definitely a big one. The more information and subsequently the more sources there are, the more time it takes to parse all that. 
If I have all the time I need I go through every single journal, at least, to browse the abstract, but that has become impossible.
Everybody who is not in the green bar is lying to you. laughter Every single one of them. 
responding to an observation that there are too many journals to keep up with and subsequently can’t keep up The answer to the question is that chemists feel that way because they’re right… they’re not doing a good job. laughter
The problem is… like when we talked about at the beginning… was that what does keeping up to date with information mean? It used to mean keeping up with all chemical literature… and that became impossible in the s. And then it became keeping up with all of the sub-field like organometallic chemistry… and that became impossible by the end of the s. Right? And then it’s like keeping up with up to date with people in my exact project… Right? laughter And even that’s hard because in many projects they’re scattered over hundreds of journals. Right? Where is green chemistry published? Other than obviously in the journal called Green Chemistry. It’s published in every single journal in the world, right? 
How do you keep up with that? So you do… what you do is you’re about to publish and you do a search and find out what you’ve missed since you did the initial search. Right? That’s a terrible way to keep up to date with information. You’re not keeping up to date except when you just did that search. So I think the reason we’re not doing a good job keeping up to date is because we are overwhelmed. 
You said it yourself. We’ve got  journals… once a month… on chemistry alone. That’s ignoring the interdisciplinary ones… the engineering ones… the bioresource ones… Call it  once a month… and we’re talking articles of more than five pages. That’s too much to read…
The reason we don’t… feel we’re keeping up to date is because…. We’re not. laughter
Inadequate laughter.
In the library we need one organic chemistry librarian and one biochemistry librarian who will sit and read through all the data articles published every week and send to each division within the chemistry department a list of articles they should read.
I think it comes down to volume – a lot of people ranked it somewhat successful –that doesn’t mean they are not putting in a good effort – you can put in an hour or  a day and you are still going to feel, oh my gosh, I still didn’t cover everything so it still makes you feel a little overwhelmed.
because the best you can do is a superficial job – if you are going to read through  abstracts this morning… the thing is you won’t – you will look at the picture and read the title – that is as much before you make the call if you open that link or not
if I open it then it probably is close enough and I will save the pdf to read later
I don’t feel upset, I feel good because I’m still up to date in my field. I know what’s happening in my field. 
I feel that I’m always playing catch up, especially for things that are somewhat relevant …trying to decide to concentrate on historical stuff, where I want to go or the stuff that just came out to see what people are doing is like treading water – which is a very good analogy - I’m not making it to shore, but I’m not drowning, just treading. 
I feel ok for areas that I work in, I make sure I cover all these area, to keep updated with other areas is possible, but that is just not going to happen.
I see other areas are not that understandable, we read just research abstracts and that’s ok. If we see something relevant, we read it, otherwise we just don’t care about keeping up to date in other less relevant areas of research
Woefully inadequate. laughter
How many more days of the week can I add? 
It actually makes me feel guilty. I feel that keeping up with the literature is a responsibility of mine and I’m failing at it. And because I’m failing at it… not only myself down… I’m letting my students and postdocs down. I feel guilty about it. One the other hand, I don’t know how to fix the problem. It’s just too much. And we’re busy people. The only way you can really solve this problem is by studying one thing… one very narrow project… have this small group of students… We’re going to study this very, very narrow problem and that’s it. And never branch out and never go broad and only go deep. Understand the chemistry of that particular ruthenium phosphate complex. Right? And then you could keep up with that extremely narrow field… maybe successfully. Maybe that’s how some people got into the . category. laughter If they’re working on something extraordinarily narrow, right? That’s the only way you could do it. But for those of us who have not made that choice to go narrow it’s impossible. 
And the more interdisciplinary you are… the worse it is. 
But there are professors who chose that. I had a visiting professor come a few years ago and join my group for a bit … it was during his sabbatical… from a small university in Canada. And he was getting close to retirement… and his lifetime had been studying one ruthenium complex. And he knew that complex really well. And he was able to keep up with the literature on that one complex. But very few chemists do that now. And therefore we all have this problem.
responding to a series of questions aligned with an increasingly interdisciplinary research and one complex You can’t get tenure doing that. But once you’ve got tenure you can do whatever the hell you want.
This fellow at the University of Delaware is an organic chemist and he basically does read it all but I'm not sure how he does that. He must not sleep. Some of the things that come through are details from the paper…I don't think he sleeps…
And talking about biochemistry, that's big, that's a whole world. You have to narrow it down to even try to keep areast of what’s in a narrow part of biochemistry…I think the days of knowing what's going on within your field are over… I don't hope to keep up with everything that's happening …which is kind of sad.
responding to a comment publishers putting out more journals and pages which they think is a good thing It's a good thing if you have page charges, or advertising, and what not.
I think it's there's a lot more garbage being published these days than there used to be. 
Many years ago I felt that I was keeping up with all the latest developments within my field. Things that came up, I would read it in a journal, and I would know what's going on. But I can't claim to know now.
I don't even try anymore. When I was a post-doc I felt like I knew at least what was happening in the world of bimolecular NMR, but I don't do that anymore, so I don't have any idea what is going on.  I have only been in analytical chemistry for a year. 
And there are new subfields coming out from traditional things. It makes it so that if you try to keep up with all that is going on, I just don't think you can do it. It’s like a growing tree branches, literally branches out into things that makes it very difficult. Things are not clearly divided anymore, the lines are blurring …organic and biochemistry… all the materials science stuff, all of that stuff is becoming one big blur…organic bionanomaterials ...that’s a real thing. name, that's one of our guys, that's what he does, and then there's going to be new journals that spring up covering whatever the topic happens to be.
Part of it…everything gets narrower and narrower and narrower, then it has to have its own journals.
You must see that in the numbers of journals that are out there. Back in the good old days when the ACS published Inorganic chemistry, Organic chemistry, Biochemistry and JACS… that covers it. Now we're looking at  + right?
Nano letters… years ago there was no such field and now they’re probably getting so many manuscripts being submitted that they have a  % acceptance rate. 
….I get daily messages from little known publishers saying please contribute to the journal you’ll get blah blah blah. 
I get them too which means they clearly don't know who they're sending them to. 
I just treat them as spam… they are spam.
So that's what they are, these guys… anybody who submits something they'll just publish it …what's the point of it…so it's contributing to the glut of information some of which becomes unreliable and not properly peer reviewed.
responding to a comment of how the library can help I think the library does a very good job of providing the information ...it is up to us to deal with it.
I just discovered the subject guides on the library website. There's one just for general chemistry that has links to various journals, various databases and then there's one did you did… 
Things that they should go look up .I should  set one up for analytical. they don't know how to look up information. I've got them into a and B and they have no idea on how to look things up or how to decide what what is a reliable source. they sort of just type a question into Google and the first thing that has those keywords in it they reference and they don't even look and see. I had    one student cite something that said something that said exactly the opposite of what they were trying to say but it had all the right words and kind of the right order when I Mark things now I say.. and now I actually I go and check all their references cuz they submit everything online so it's easier for me to just cut and paste the reference into Google and find the reference and see if it says what they think it's saying. Then I tell them I know this doesn't say that, read your references carefully. But it's a lot of work. I don't know if maybe and again I'm not talking as an academic chemist I am talking as a chemistry teacher if there was a way to…I talked with Liz about the fourth-year course she taught when she worked with you quite a bit. I wonder if there were a way to incorporate that kind thing earlier into the …or even have part of this chem  or chem  where they're actually learning that stuff how to use databases
there's a lot things that students don't know about finding information 
I was I got my undergraduate degree in geology so there were paper references that we had to go through and we had to do research papers all through…but you really had to think about what you are looking up because it was really time consuming and leaf through page after page and then I got my PhD in Biochemistry. And there was still Chem Abstracts on paper and you have to sort of remember… and I was doing biomolecular NMR and I was looking stuff up and you had to look at physics and biochemistry and all that stuff so you had to had to be really careful…by the time you went to actually photocopy it would cost you, so you spent a lot more time I think in the olden days thinking about your sources and being more critical 
and being more critical and selective 
and that's one thing with this massive amount of information that students have now they there is no time pressure or monetary pressure on their part to be critical so they download a whole bunch of stuff and think everything so I think… 
They are not filtering 
Anything like that would be useful. when we did our grad program, the , where they have to do a research proposal, part of that we talked about having sessions with librarians for the students to be able to day even say before you approach this this is how you this is how you should or could look for information that you need .
so it has to be something integrated like in our third year labs where they are actually expected to do some research. if they had to do something which they couldn't do otherwise, then they get shown how to do it they might actually take it.
First year numbers get out of hand. Try to show  Chem  students how to do it and they don't need it. The majority are not going to be chemists or scientists of any sort but even when they progress into second year we only have let’s say   honours chemistry students and biochemistry together  so we are not talking huge numbers anymore. Cut that even more by rd year 
So … they do more research and writing of lab reports in the lab classes to include it in   I would happily have it included in  and L which is taught winter and spring… it would have  students in the fall and we could add it to their lab.
Our fourth year students, there are maybe forty  for students. That's probably comparable to our incoming grad students. we would bring in maybe  grad students each year one. We could have a session to deal with that…one would like to think students have that undergrad upbringing in North America would know what's going on with a lot of these things but we're getting a lot of foreign students now and I think a lot of these guys SciFinder and all this stuff and Google is essentially banned in China so so these things will be very new. so somewhere in there right now, what the grad students learn pretty much depends on their student supervisors and their lab mates. if they don't get there they don't get it from anywhere else.
we did talk a lot about a few years ago trying to put in a separate course for our grad students to be able to do literature searching 
our first year we had… I went to school in the states and we had three -week terms and the first term of your first year you sat and watched the second-year students give seminars and then second and third terms we gave seminars to each other and then the first term of our second year we gave seminars too and that's where we learned how to literature searches and how do paraphrasing and reference and we were marked on how well we spoke as well as we had to submit a written, not really a formal paper, but a written summary of all our references and stuff to the prof who taught the course and so that's where we learned all that. we had  one group for each division so the biochemists presented to biochemists and the organic chemists to the organic chemists and so on. we didn't have to worry about presenting at a level for people outside, not that first your grad students were experts, especially me coming in with a bachelor's degree in geology. so I think that those kinds of things… but here there seems to be…. at UCLA where I got my PhD we didn't do any research our first year at all and very little research in second year because it’s all course work and exams and TAing and we really didn't get into the meat of your dissertation research until the end of your second year. and here it seems to be a much more ??? and we also did didn't join a research group until the end of first year . We  did rotations through different Labs so you had to learn how to find information in three different fields And even if you came in knowing exactly who you want to work for you still weren't allowed to start.
that's an American thing …basically there's enough money to go around… there's a pool that supports those first year grad students whereas in Canada I have never heard of that. Typically you hop into research right away, they will fund you right away 
databases are what they are what else can you change, you put in authors, you put in a nice searchable form and then it's up to us 
it's amazing…I  used to use Chem Abstracst online and then OVID was the one we used at Harvard …what other ones we used they keep disappearing get replaced by something else.
SciFinder is there forever right? it is not going anywhere, not with the support it has of ACS 
I remember you doing the initial overview but maybe specific sessions that are not mandatory where you could host sessions for like reaxys – I have been told it can be really useful and I have no idea how to use it and I probably will not take the time to sit down and teach myself unless I am in a situation – so like actual workshops for similar programs
I think mini seminars are a good idea but most grad students don’t fix a problem until they absolutely have to – Like I did not know how to use endnote until  months ago
you mentioned online -  maybe that would be useful so that when you need to learn endnote or something if there is a narrated online tutorial – I imagine it is a lot of work to produce – 
commenting on the value of teaching smaller than larger teachable moments, highlighting issues, and tutorials} that is probably a good idea
it is amazing what you can learn just from watching youtube!
responding to the value of librarians at group meetings highlighting one thing that is interesting – at the last group meeting, I was going on about endnote and word. All the grad students have to write a thesis but I would wager when they come in a very small percentage wouldn’t even know how to create a table of contents – that is one of the things I was talking about – just how to set it up – you do this little bit of prep work and save yourself an enormous amount of time at the end of it and the same is true of endnote
commenting on the practice of managing citations prior to writing that sort of thing would be very useful for incoming students – this is not common curriculum – is it something some people will pick up and others won’t, it depends on exposure and wherever they did their undergrad
we had a session in my th year – not so much that I remembered how to do everything but on the tools that were out there so that you know what to look for – otherwise you are just going to type everything in
commenting on orientation issues faced by librarians with minimal opportunities to teach and meet face to face with students it is tough to be taught something before you know how you are going to use it
so, that is why the online tutorials can help – so you can know this is where you can get more information
even if I was super eager to learn endnote, I can’t imagine using it before I was writing my first paper which for some people could be a few years into your degree and at that point you are so far away from your orientation
I find I rely on citation alerts a lot e.g. SciFinder Keep Me Posted, so getting those alerts or tracking this paper got cited, or my research, or another paper to see what other people are doing - is important. Database producers could help chemists better follow that trail with alerts and RSS feeds would help.
Chemists are not really sure just what to do to keep up with informaton. What I do find helpful are news feeds for what’s happening right now. For example, I get a news feed from The Scientist every day for things that are remotely related to my research area, which are interesting as a general knowledge alert feature of different things …they are very helpful for me to stay updated. 
More access, I guess there are financial implications for that with the every-expanding areas you can put your material. The more access we have - the better. It is quit frustrating doing a search finding a beautiful paper or patent you want to have access to and finding out that we don’t have the rights for it, or we have to subscribe, or what-have-you! Having something like document delivery) is great, but there is that time delay, I may have it the next day or maybe two or three weeks before I see it. As the breadth of journals and places to disseminate your research knowledge increases, keeping up with the access to this information is important.
responding to a comment that access to content and increasing forms of research is essential for chemists That’s absolutely true! – it is the most important for chemists to have access to content.
Cost is a big barrier, you get things like EndNote that are very effective and great ways of keeping citations organized, ways of importing that data, but there is a cost. I’m finding that my research group, Mendeley is taking off just because it is freeware, there are limitations to what you can do on their database or server, but when you have the desktop version, that’s what I am finding that people are utilizing, even though it is not as elegant, but the costs are send student that way. 
responding to a comment that Google will be taking over the world of information Google searching allows for the typing in of anything you want, it will take you to any journal, anywhere on the Internet, so that is easy, but sometimes it is better to go to a specific database to do structure searching. Normally you can type anything in Google, but is it capturing everything?
responding to a comment that Google will be taking over the world of information for chemists Not in the next few years, not impossible in the future,
Ask publishers to put out less journals. 
I don’t know if I agree with that. Facetiously, of course…
I’m joking, I’m joking… Obviously… laughter
Because… it’s just… I’m on the editorial board of Green Chemistry… and the rejection rate used to be, like,  percent. And now it’s  percent. And I just saw a graph earlier today… they send it to me every three months… the number of submissions is just skyrocketing. And they don’t want to put out more issues per year. Right? So they said we’re maxed out. We don’t want issues to be like encyclopedia volumes. So they’re saying we’re not going to accept more papers. So what’s going to happen? The rejection rate is going to go higher and higher. And once you’re rejection rates gets to , , , ,  percent… most people can no longer publish in that journal. 
But on top of that… it’s actually one of these things I heard about… where it’s become the sign of a good journal the more rejections you put… you have… Which I think is a failing on the part of the journals… were they saying “we’re a better journal because we reject more people.” And I’m not sure that’s the right way of thinking, as well.
It’s not. The goal of the journal is to have high-quality research. Right? As a service to the community. That’s the goal. And rejection rate and impact factor … they’re all different ways of trying to put a number on that… but they’re not the goal. They’re simply metrics to see if we’re getting close to the goal. 
Impact factor is also important because nowadays everyone is looking at impact factors… oh I cannot submit materials to this journal… 
It’s important in the sense it’s like advertising. But it’s not the goal.
Yes, not the goal.
The editorial board of Green Chemistry… we were told by the publisher that the goal for our journal for between now and  or  was to have a certain impact factor. And the board rejected it… we said no. That’s not our goal. Our goal is to have the best possible journal we can. High quality research etc, etc… We don’t care what the impact factor is. As long as we do that goal the impact factor will go up because we are doing goal. But our goal is the quality and no the impact factor. 
Back to your question about how librarians and database producers could help us do a better job of monitoring and managing information… I don’t actually know… unless there’s some like… I mean we’ve got all the database systems available to do it… If you could create a second day in the middle of the day that would be great. laughter If we had time… a way to do that… Okay, yes… we could all be better time managers and so forth… but to be honest I mean… we are expected and expect for ourselves to put out academic papers about our own and therefore get data and as a result you have to spend a given amount of time at the bench top doing the work and so with the sheer amount that’s out there… unless there’s just suddenly another day added to the week… it’s not going to really happen. 
I think there’s more we can do now. Like… I said earlier that I used to use RSS feeds and then it stopped working and I never invested the time to fix it because I remembered the first experience… which was admittedly quite a few years ago… and it was really painful to set up. Right? I suspect… and you can correct me if I’m wrong… that it’s a lot easier to do it now than it was back then. To get like automatic weekly feeds of here’s the things… 
and things like… you know… a weekly e-mail saying here are the papers that have cited your papers. That kind of thing… I suspect that setting those things up are not nearly as painful now as they used to be. But professors usually try to a long time ago and found it painful and don’t want to do it anymore. So if we had… I don’t know… Michael White… come to faculty meeting and speak for four minutes and the beginning or the middle of the faculty meeting saying if you want these automated notifications this is how easy it is. And I can explain it to you in four minutes… then scoot out of your faculty meeting so you can talk about your boring stuff. And we’ll say… “that’s all we have to do? Oh I can do that…” 
There you go. Am I right that it’s actually easier now than it was back then? 
responding to the idea and practice of imbedded librarians in research teams in medicine and other disciplines It appeals a lot. But the question I’m going to ask you is… you’re talking about medicine which is a faculty that traditionally gets a lot more funding from universities and from industry and from the government and comparing it against chemistry… It would be wonderful having you one site at all times doing that with us and helping us out with that sort of thing… it would be… but speaking for myself in this regard. However, who is going to fund you? Is that going to come from the university? Is that going to come from what journals we can get? So… say for example you get  percent of the university budget for the university’s access to journals… Now is your salary being embedded in our group going to come from that  percent? Therefore, I lose access to Green Chemistry? If that’s the case, then I apologize… I prefer to have Green Chemistry. If it’s going to come from our budget as researchers then I apologize… I’d prefer to have a new GC. So it’s a great idea… 
