Yes, I think I am.
I feel successful, yes. 
I think, uh, when I answered that question I felt, to some extent, that I was not successful because I don’t, it takes me a long time to be aware of certain results, um, that are out there. I’m not as quick as I used to be when I had less things to do at the start, when you’re a grad student you have so much free time you don’t realize it when you’re just starting as a post doc. And so, for example at that time I was maybe following the arXiv and knowing what were the results as they were coming out. But it’s just too much and I don’t have the time to do that anymore. So I was feeling I was not successful, but then at the same time, if I reflect on a grander scale, then I’m also successful because of conferences and, um, but, in a sense that’s really, um. Yeah, I would say I’m mildly successful in the sense that I’m not necessarily aware of everything, or when I finally take the time to look at uh, to prepare a grant proposal, then I’ll try to cast a wider net and then become aware of lots of things, like, oh, these things existed. Maybe they have existed for five, six years and I’m not aware of it now whereas I should be aware. So to say I’m really successful, I feel I should be aware of these things faster, in a sense. responding to a comment that you look for something when you have a specific project or topic in mind… and dive in. Yeah, that’s correct.
Hmm, successful in terms of keeping up to date? Somewhat, I think so, yeah, maybe number two. Yeah, maybe two somewhat successful… and three successful…, in between, I think I’m closer to successful. Uh, so, you know, now the literature is quite diverse, and often it’s very difficult to define, like for myself, which is really the area I mean. I am in the group of actuarial sciences. There is no clear boundary between actuarial science and finance, and indeed, our research involves not just actuarial science, but also finance, risk management, and further when we’re talking about risk management and finance, there are different styles and different streams of research.  For finance, there’s mathematical finance and empirical finance, so I don’t think I really keep up to date in every corner there. 
Yeah, there is a huge amount of information so, you can’t read everything. I do find I read more slowly than I used to. But, you know you pick and choose, so it’s not a matter of reading everything, it’s a matter of choosing wisely I think… Well responding to the question how do you chose?, partly I read papers of people I know and respect, and I read papers that seem to have information in them that’s useful to me. So, if it is new stuff, you see it in a variety of ways. One of the most common ways these days is the arXiv. You see lots of papers going through there. But, many of them aren’t worth spending any time on, and others might be very important papers but they’re in areas that aren’t particularly close to my interests. So I keep eye out there. At conferences you hear people speaking about stuff and you say oh, I need to know about that. When you’re working on problems, you often need to know certain things and then it’s a matter of searching through the older literature to find out if anything is known because not everything that you need to know is right in your own bailiwick, of course. And, there are a number of ways to do that. MathSciNet is a tremendous resource. I don’t know if you’re old enough to remember Math Reviews when they were only in hard copy… But you know, that was so slow and rather ineffective. But now, you can do keyword searches to find papers on anything. I was just doing it now in order to decide whether to have a paper that was submitted to a journal I’m an editor of referred or not, just looking to see what’s in the literature. And, also it’s a good way of finding referees. You can search for lots of things and, plus, many times you can download the paper immediately and take a look at it. If it sounded interesting you can take a look, quickly decide if it actually is doing what you think the review says it did, depending on how old things are. Like a project I’m involved in now, some stuff’s very current, cutting edge, but it’s related to work that was done in the sixties, so much of that’s in books. Some of which I’ve read thoroughly, and others where I occasionally find things in sifting through that’s what we’re looking for. You don’t have to reinvent the wheel every time, but it’s helpful to know what’s known in an area. Most research involves bringing some diverse elements together. In order to do new things, you often have to figure out how the old things were done. So, sometimes keeping up to date is learning what’s been known for a long time, but in a different area. I guess part of what you learn as a researcher is how to sift through that information and pick it up. But it’s way easier now with all the electronic resources. It’s much easier to chase things down.
Oh yes. OK. Yes I think yes I am successful in keeping up to date. OK.
Yes I would say yes I feel successful. I mean which category do I fall into?
Um, ya, it’s hard as a grad student. Grad students are definitely not as good at keeping up-to-date. Some of the barriers we have are conference funding, so being able to actually actively engage in research across the board is really prohibitive. So, schools like Name have a lot of conference funding. Schools like Ryerson don’t have as much. So we are only sending the best students to conferences ‘cause that’s what we can afford to send. Um, and then in terms of, like, up-to-date with here’s new information weekly, ahm, in math, information comes out way more slowly, so -- especially in comparison to something like education … I do some research there as well. So, I think, in my experience, it’s been fine because I have a large community because I have been able to go to these conferences, but without that, I think it would be a lot more difficult. And, early in my masters, I was like “what's research? Who’s doing what? I don’t know? I’m just here.” And then, “you figure it out.”
It’s a misleading question, correct, because we live in an era that’s so much development that keeping up-to-date is a very unintelligible question. I guess they mean in terms of access to information. In that sense, yes, but my point is that there is so much information, even if you have access, you cannot absorb it anyways. But, I mean, in the sense that what they mean, yes.
I would say that I am somewhat successful. I could certainly do better if I devoted more time to following up with everything that is happening in my field. Well… I have a sense of some shortcomings. I would have hoped obviously to do better in keeping up to date, to follow much more closely, to stay much more in touch with colleagues and the various teams that work on the same subjects across the world. I haven’t always been good at keeping channels of communications with everyone. For example, I followed a team in Japan that, with which I drafted a model when I was younger, but then I lost contact with them… It’s really a matter of finding the time, it is an issue of time management, and due to many commitments that I had mostly as an administrator, I was chair of the department for seven years, an associate dean for six years, then I left Name of Institution for five years… where I was busy setting up new programs elsewhere, so that took a toll… it limited my perseverance and my ability to be successful in following up, in making use of all possible resources.
I would say that I am successful in keeping up to date with literature in the areas of interest, but I am not successful at keeping up with the technology that is being developed. There are two types of technologies in mathematics. The technologies, which are written by mathematicians – for mathematicians. An example of that would be the Maple software system written by the University of Waterloo Mathematica. Those technologies one can keep up by looking at the particular areas of interest for example in the early days I would keep up in the areas where I was teaching and using the technology with the students, but now the number of these softwares has increased so much and the kind of programing that is required has become very different in a sense that some of them are still syntax base, others are not, and so on… At one time, I was quit knowledgeable about mathematics software that the schools no longer support. So much has expanded. So it’s a matter of – its not data I’m looking for, questions included, can I handle that, how do I know the best software. So – in that area I’m not keeping up. In the area in getting publications… it’s all electronic now, it’s not difficult to keep up, when I started we used to have interlibrary loans, a system which used to take ages to get a paper, now it’s all electronic so I don’t visit the library…
I would say somewhat. I could do better.
So, currently, um, I’ve changed a lot to going online, and I get, uh, emails from several sources, with the latest, uh, content, and several journals, several math societies, and several online, I don’t know what you’d call them, repositories. They send out lists so I get, I get too many, it’s hard to keep up with all of them because there’s so many. But I definitely get more than enough that I can stay current. And the other thing I do is I’m an associate editor for, again, too many journals and so that helps me stay very current, because I see what people are submitting and, uh, I get to hear what the referees say.
I suppose there are some journals they sort of just keep track of, you know, go and look and see what’s being published, you know, in recent issues. Um, talking to people, uh, you know, and I use the Science Citation Index to see who has referenced particular papers to help find out what sort of latest publications are related to that are. I suppose those are the main things… I guess I know what journals publish things that are of interest to me, so those are the ones I pay attention to. So, I probably, I guess in that sense not very good at finding things in like some obscure journal that’s relevant to what I do, so I really pay attention to the main journals. And that’s where I guess I’d rely on the Science Citation Index. And I suppose sometimes I’ll use you know, like Google Scholar, so you can type in some subject and then a bunch of things will come up. So I do use that as well.
Maybe I will search on the arXiv for keywords when I’m working on a project, a very specific one, or most often if I know a result is already there. Like, I know, say, Professor X wrote something, then I’ll search Profess X arXiv, then I will be able to go one level up and see not only the paper that is relevant to me, but what other papers they have done around this topic.
I use Google Scholar?... Because it’s the most update I guess and they update at least every week or probably even daily. I enter some keywords there to subscribe alerts so they will send an alert email to me when new papers on these keywords come up. I also frequently look at the SSRN, a website for people to post their working papers there.
In the old days, I would regularly go to the Library and look through their recent issues of various journals. But I don’t do that anymore because you get a lot of it online. Although, I must admit that it’s different. If you’re looking for something specific, then you only find something specific. But when you’re sifting through journals, it used to be you’d come across something interesting that wasn’t in your field but somehow caught your attention. You would spend a few minutes looking at it, getting some idea about it. That kind of cross-fertilization happens less now, because on arXiv I look in a couple lists, specific to the area that I work in. Even on those lists, I quickly reject things, which aren’t closely related. I still get several journals that I’m the editor of, some specialist journals. I always look through the table of contents of those journals to see if I missed something of interest. I look also at the American Math Society, the Notices and the Bulletin. I sift through because there are often survey articles in there in other areas. Usually they’re too long to just read quickly but, you can get some sort of sense of what’s going on just to get a sense of culture. You want to know if some major problems have been solved in some area even if you don’t know the area particularly. Other things: Google Scholar I use sometimes. I don’t find it as useful as MathSciNet, but if you’re looking for a paper and the Library doesn’t have that journal, then the other two places to look generally are Google Scholar and arXiv. If it’s older, then Google Scholar might have access to it.
OK. Google scholar, arXives, going to conferences.
So I check ArXiv pretty much every night… Because it comes online at eight thirty or nine o'clock at night. Right. OK. So I know you can subscribe. But I don't do that …subscribe to the alerts and get them in the morning 	Yeah. Yeah. OK. go in at night That's can be hitting it. If I forget. Then I don't. I could be missing things. So in some ways I think I'm not systematic. So while I feel successful, it's sort of it's a habit. Kinda like your coffee. You know so there's there's a bit of a habit thing. Oh yeah I'll check that and then something things I'll discover Oh it's been a couple of days because I forgot. Or but yeah. So I recognize, I think initially I didn't know you could get the alert right. And then somebody mentioned that you could get the alert. I think she wanted to submit to arXiv at a particular time. There was this strategy at the top of the alerts. Responding to a comment that they have actually changed that over time in arXiv to eliminate that gain. OK. So she said well I want to put the paper on the arXiv at this time so that its this in the alerts and then I thought oh there are alerts. OK. Yeah. Responding to the comment that someone went along and actually did that study to figure out how many citations there were for if you were one, two or three at the top of the alerts in arXiv so they realized that was an advantage because people tended to get tired reading further down. Oh yes. Yes. So that's the main thing I do. I also will go and check conference, like the accepted papers in a conference. 
Yeah yeah (going to conferences). But again it's more, I guess when the spirit moves me. Oh yeah that conference is coming up in July. I'm not going. But let's see if the accepted papers list is out, I wonder who's giving a talk. Right. Something else interesting I did for probably the first time I went to the Website for the BIRS - Banff Institute and research. BIRS is the acronym for Banff International Research Station I think, so they publish. And so every week there's a different group. Should I explain it or do you know it? …all right. OK. All right. So you already know how it works. So they put online the papers and sometimes the videos if the people have video. So I went looking because I found I think from someone's Website they were going to one of these. Oh it was in March and I went through the schedule and downloaded one of the PowerPoint presentations and it looks useful and in fact it's like there's nothing arXiv. This is pre-publication. Right… and the person cited some of my work and extended it in another direction and I kind of feel like you found gold right… and nowhere where else would I have found it not on the arXiv? It's not in a journal it's not... Anyway it will be in six months probably. Responding to a comment that's not I mean you tended to go to conferences so that wasn't really new behavior it was just that particular conference that you'd actually got to look at. Yeah yeah yeah as a strategy to go to conferences.
The biggest thing is the arXiv. So, they send out an email blast. Um, it’s like once a week or once every Monday or something like that. Um, so that’s fun. So, wherever I post a paper, I get all these texts from my friends. They’re like “congrats. It’s really cute.” Yeah, but the arXiv. It’s up-to-date; it’s quick. In math, you don’t get as many bogus papers. And the bogus paper are clearly bogus.
If I stumble on an idea, or something, then I expand. I take a couple of days to expand, search. I might pick up a paper. Mostly Google Scholar is pretty good because it gives you all the citations. So, then I go over each citation, and you can go deeper that way. ArXiv, yes, I have a few papers in arXiv and I use SSRN. I find them limited because I like something where people can comment upon. Something’s coming up. A friend of mine told me about a new platform coming up. I send it to you if I find it. It seems quite interesting. I bounce it to you. I was surprised. It was a colleague of mine at Simon Fraser and he sent me something that sounded interesting. The publication business is out-of-control. I don’t know if you’ve heard about it. I mean we send papers; they take six months and they come back saying “no” and just with a paragraph. So, people don’t read them. Just leave them there. It’s brutal. Google Scholar is the first choice. Yeah, but I am not systematic. I usually don't go to the MathSciNet. I don’t feel that I need.
Well… First of all… I have direct communications with some select scholars across the world, we exchange emails… on developments in our field. The common questions they ask me very often are questions whether I have an idea on how to solve a particular problem and whether I have seen anything that relates to a particular problem - so there is direct communication. Then, I have been an associate editor on a number of journals… the most important journals in my field… I have been an associate editor on the top two journals… so I see a lot of stuff that is submitted for publication. I am solicited a lot as well to act as a reviewer of papers so I review a great deal of papers and lately in the last ten years, I have been returning requests to review due to backlog… When I was younger in my career and not involved in administrative work I pretty much accepted all invitations because I felt it was a way to keep in touch with what was being done… So - I do a lot of editing, I do a lot of reviewing, I also get notifications from a number of sources including research journals and ResearchGate. I also look at ArXiv as well. So - that’s essentially how I keep pace with what’s going on in my field.
Supervision of students is a good way. I teach a course where I need to be updated with the current research and I teach it every other year so it obliges me to read more of the literature. So – through my teaching, student supervision… and attending conferences which is a nice opportunity to remain current. I always feel that I am behind especially at conferences when I hear talks, paper presentations… then there are some papers that may be a little dated then I see that, oh, this is interesting, I should know about that, when I see… it reminds me that there is so much to keep updated with, and so on…
That usually happens responding to a comment that a lot of the information is being pushed to you. Um, do you go out, do you ever have a question, something where you want to go out and you want to, you do the searching to find more information or find an answer on something? when I’m doing research with myself and with colleagues. Almost always happens that we have to go out and look for things, and, nowadays a lot is available on people’s webpages, and, so, yeah, it’s, I’m finding these things online. And then, uh, when there are a lot of books online as well, from our library. So I get it that way.
when responding to a question Do you usually go through the Library? For some things, for books. Not so much for journals anymore. Well, actually, I use MathSciNet probably at least once a day. I use it all the time. So I get my, yes, I’m constantly looking up articles that I need to look at using MathSciNet.
I’d say it’s fairly sporadic, hmm, I’m not sure, it’s not like I once a week go and look. Yeah, I don’t really know… Uh, well it’s certainly dependent part on teaching schedule, you know, like if I’m teaching a lot one term and I’m really just teaching, I probably don’t do a lot of keeping up in things. Um, yeah and it would also be project based. Like, if I start working on something new then I’ll make more of an effort to find out what’s being published. Um, but I also do a lot of reviewing which part of that is to sort of keep me up to date on things. So it’s one thing that forces me to read things. Because see, I mean, you’re not only seeing what people are writing and submitting at the time, but they also reference a bunch of papers that are relevant too. So that’s actually probably an important way to keep up to date… responding to a question So, thinking about your schedule and sort of what you have on your plate, um, how does this piece fit in to it? How do you make time for it? Or is it something you have to consciously think about? Uh, so you mean in particular keeping up to date on what’s being published? Ah, laughter it’s probably not high enough. Uh, hmm, yeah, I’m not sure how to answer that…. Comes up with projects.
Um, it’s a good question. A couple times a year I would say. It really depends but, if I try to back track this year and what happened. I have a student that’s working on something, I want to dig a little bit on what was done. When I wrote my grant proposal obviously I spent a lot of time trying to figure out the topography, if you want, of the literature to see what was there, what has been done recently. I’d say one drawback, going back to the earlier question about success, is that when I do these bouts of things that are very project centric, is that I find that there’s a lot of things I did not know existed and I don’t have time to really absorb it, so I will have a very superficial knowledge of the literature. And very often it’s, what’s annoying is when there’s, for example, a certain group of people that are not people I intersect with at conferences, uh, you know, I never met them, I don’t know about them from this way, so I’ve never heard them speak or something like that. So that’s when I don’t know much. So I’d say, yeah, a couple times a year, three or four times a year.
Uh, I think almost every day. Maybe it is safer to say by another day.  Sometimes it’s too busy, no time, you know, for that.
Yeah, regularly, multiple times a week. Some people get emails about new papers that are in the arXiv. I don’t do that. I find that intrusive, but I look at arXiv every couple weeks to see what’s there. Usually download half a dozen papers, but don’t necessarily read them all. It’s like owning books, you can see it’s much easier to buy a book than to read it laughter. You read stuff more carefully when you really need it, but sometimes you buy books because you say: oh I’d like to know about that field. I like, I keep hearing about it, it would be good to know, and you get it. I find it’s usually easy to read the first chapter, but then you find you run out of time. I have a number of books like that. Other things: MathSciNet, I use MathSciNet all the time. Google Scholar less often, maybe once every couple weeks. I also just use Google to search for things. Sometimes I’ll Google, or Google Scholar. Often Google Scholar will come up with some portion of a book and you can see if the result is in there. Usually it doesn’t have the whole passage that you want though. So then, you have to go to the Library or see if you can find the book online. I much prefer if you’re reading a book extensively to have a hard copy. But it’s handy to have an electronic version just so that if you’re traveling you have access to it, where you don’t if you just have the hard copy. So that’s a change, you don’t have to carry a lot of books around.
Yeah. Let's say once every ten days.
So some of it's habit forming searching every night. I assume this is like looking for new stuff because if there's something I'm working on and I want to find out, you know, did someone cite this paper. Yeah I have. Then I would put that in a different category… OK. That's a pleasant activity. So that's the kind of thing that I would do if I were down about other things. So let's look for some new ideas and things like this. So right to it’s a reward… No it's not a hardship. It's not a punishment, but that’s not the right word. Anyway, it's not onerous. It's not a burden right.
Probably during conference season. So, like, in the summers, maybe once a year and then otherwise if something else pops up.
As I said, whenever I bump into a new idea, I just check and make sure that what is done and what is not and I can do that in a couple days. I get a good feeling. Yeah, well, I mean, you look around and then I go to … yeah, you can go to journals. But, I usually try to do regional research, so I know when it’s different. So, yeah, I’m a bit eclectic. It’s not systematic. Google Scholar is definitely … I use it a lot.
I do it weekly. No, I don’t have a system, I have things come to me, and then there are a number of periodicals that I consult on a regular basis like journals in my field as well as the most influential general journals, I go and look at the table of contents and what has appeared in the latest issues, others will send me information… I am on their mailing list, so that if there are contributions in my field I get an email saying… look at this paper, it might be of interest to you. I have colleagues that send me their work. 

I do this through the course I teach, every other year, there is definitely so much research happening, updates with the literature, and depending on the student I’m supervising the topic, how much we know, writing papers, if I am working on a paper, obviously for the introduction and context, I need to do a literature review, so it obliges me to… it’s on me, its not, I know of a colleague who saves their Fridays for reading. I wish I was trying to do that… I never came to do it. I don’t manage to do it on a weekly basis with my weekly schedule and do it on a needs-basis, it happens often, regularly. 
Which system – the electronic system or are we talking about computation format mathematics or are we talking  about the many different ways you have to submit your papers, formats tend to be different…  I use search engines, Google Scholar…

I would say fairly rarely because I am fairly focused on what I want immediately. So - this occurs most probably at the beginning of the development of a paper to see what is happening, in other words - I’ve got an idea on something I want to develop. So - you do a background research I would say that is fairly superficial. I don’t read the papers. I read the abstracts and see how closely how it comes to what I want to do and then if the paper in fact really develops then I’ll do a deeper search and it becomes more of an enhancement of… but in terms of the technology which is different from the technology of mathematics… there is another side of the technology as well which is the technology which is being developed for mathematics programming technologies which I don’t keep up… I’m sure that some of them meet my requirements better than the technology I’m struggling with now.

No, I don’t think so. I would image that it would be the same, let’s say for physicists, I forgot also to mention that I (as much as I can) attend and participate in international events and conferences in my field. I usually do not miss… I touch base with people… to see what they are doing.
No, I don’t think so. I would think that this applies to any field whether it is in the sciences or elsewhere. I think face-to-face discussion that happens in conferences is important and those questions you can ask directly to the speaker right there. I think that that this is something that can be done only through a face-to-face interaction, attending a talk where a point of view can be conveyed in an informal and sometimes much more informative way. This face-to-face interaction allows to get informed on the creation process, or why/how did you get to work on this problem, what were the ideas that you had in mind for writing this proof, and where the inspiration comes from… When you talk to your colleagues face-to-face then you learn much more. 

Yeah, it’s not, it’s not the way it used to be. So what I used to do is walk by the library every morning and see the journals that came in, so I’ve been around for a long time and I used to be able to keep up, amazingly enough. Now, it’s too hard to even keep up with even twenty journals, they publish so much. Um, so, the way I keep up now is, if I hear of a new book I’ll send you email if the book is not available yet, and ask you to tell me when it arrives. So I do try to keep up that way. There’s many more new books that come out now than there used to as well, and they’re a good summary of the most recent research. Otherwise, things like MathSciNet like I mentioned, and also the arXiv is really good. So the arXiv sends out a regular email and there’s another, there’s other repositories like that, the other one is called e-optimization, it comes out every couple of weeks. And so there’s a long list, it comes out with a list of maybe fifty papers, so these are papers that are not published yet, these are just papers that people have finished, they’ve been submitted, and so, in some sense I’m not keeping up, I’m staying ahead. Nowadays everybody’s keeping ahead of publication rather than keeping up. That’s why I don’t bother going and checking journals so much anymore, and I don’t stop in the library and see the latest journals. Really, everybody’s staying ahead… You see the papers before they’re published, rather than when they’re published. It’s a very interesting phenomenon, that the actual papers that are published are, are sort of after the fact. It’s more to do with having something on permanent record, rather than researchers actually seeing the new results… responding to a comment that the research gets disseminated earlier than that Yeah, it really comes out almost a year before it gets published. responding to a question, those emails that you see that list, you know fifty papers, are you able to look at all of those papers? No, it’s impossible. No, I’ll read through, so, one of them is optimization but optimization now has twenty different areas, so I’ll read through the titles really quickly and for the areas that are really close to mine, read through he titles very carefully and when something looks very interesting I’ll download the paper. It’s impossible to keep up.

Well I guess in a sense, I consider it should be a priority, then my… I mean normally you should, the way you really know if something is a priority is if you at the schedule of someone, and obviously if I look at my schedule it’s not a priority laughter. If I want to be really honest, right? But yeah, I just don’t find a time to, and , yeah, when I say why I think it should be a priority, it should be a priority, I’m considered an expert in the field, and to be an expert I should be better educated about what’s out there, and I don’t feel that I necessarily am always perfectly educated.

Yes, almost every day, I think. Maybe by another day, more precisely. You mean why is it important, right, is that the question? How do you fit information seeking in to your schedule? Uh, well, just because now, you know, the online information is available and often they come in instantaneously, so, you know, the researchers are usually very willing to circulate their research outcomes online. So often they post their working papers very quickly, and just because this is in an electronic medium, so it’s very easy for us to fit in to, I mean, fit in to our schedule to look in to what new things have come out. I think this is due to the technology. You know, electronic material makes it much easier, more convenient to get updates.  

Well, time management is always an issue in this business. You have a lot of things to do. It’s one of the reasons that people’s research sometimes dies back in their midcareer because they don’t assign enough priority to it. If you want to get research done, you have to have a priority to get it done. Because there’s lots of things pulling at our time. You have teaching, you have undergraduate students asking questions, your grad students and postdocs, you’ve got committees that you’re on, you’ve got your family life. It’s easy to let something go if you don’t give it enough priority. In order to be a successful researcher, you have to think about these things a lot. I noticed this some years ago when I was director of the redacted. The administrative demands were very high. I set aside one day a week where I was supposed to do research, and I didn’t spread it out because of the situation, I was in redacted. It’s very hard if you’re doing research only once a week. You spend a large part of your time trying to figure out where you were. It’s much better if you’re thinking about it every day, even if you’re only spending a half hour or an hour some days thinking about it. That moves you forward and it keeps you going. Plus your subconscious works for you if you’re thinking about things. So, it’s important to do that regularly. You have to allow a certain amount of time most days to do that and so you have to juggle all these things. It has to be one of the balls you’re keeping in the air. And some people do it better than others, I guess. But after a while it becomes a way of life, if you like laughter.

Yes, and I can give an example. In the evening when I’m watching TV. The TV is on but at the same time I'm browsing for new papers that have appeared in arXive. That's a typical thing that they do… I'm just browsing. If I see something interesting I save it on my desktop to look at it in detail a little bit more detail next day or sometime later or I archive it in the folder on that particular subject. You know it's a line of research, like variation on methods so I have a folder that contain certain kind of papers on that phrase.

It’s not a huge priority. Because math happens so slowly … the new … so … it’s an eighteen-month cycle between when you’re doing research and when you are getting published and when people are reading it. And, no one’s really working that fast. So, because it’s nice and slow, like, keeping up-to-date isn’t a huge priority. Teaching and service, on the other hand, is a bigger priority. You wanna make sure that you are using effective teaching strategies, so with teaching, when I teach (I’m an instructor at redacted maybe like a quick Google here and there to make sure, like every semester, to make sure that the material I’m teaching versus how I’m teaching that material and delivering those lectures is, like, good. So, medium priority?

I do it all the time, hours and hours per day. I mean, I spend hours in front of the computer just looking for books, papers, ideas. I mean, the main part of research is just discarding ideas, right? You have an idea and most of the time it doesn’t work. So, you don’t want to spend … and nowadays that’s a part of the internet that you can move on before spending a lot of time, correct. In the past, you were going to do computations, elaborate. Now, it saves you time.
You know you have to take the time. You have to take the time and devote time on a weekly basis, you are going to visit these sites, and you are going to look at what is being published – so you have to take the time, make the time and I think you have no choice if you are to keep informed about what’s going on and the latest - otherwise your knowledge of the state of the art is going to become obsolete.

I need to specify that I have not been teaching since date… I am retired. So - the push of getting what I need for teaching is just not there and how to fit it into my schedule… depends on my co-researchers which I still have in the teaching environment. In the research environment, I have more flexibility and I respond more to the situation when I can easily schedule time to do that. So - if something comes up and I’m meeting with researchers I can say that I will be able to do that within two days because I don’t have the pressure of other unrelated things to research.

Whenever I need to do it. I make it fit the schedule because I need it. It’s on me.

Yeah, it’s just the volume is making, yeah, and unfortunately, so I’m an editor of, I don’t know if you want to hear the actual number but its quite a very large number of journals, associate editor of, something like seven journals. That’s really a bit silly, um, but, uh, so, I really get to see what’s coming out and what’s coming out and what’s sad of course is that there’s a lot of pressure on people to publish. And, nowadays graduate students are publishing more than what professors used to publish, so there’s so much papers coming out. And you go to conferences and there’s always graduate students presenting papers. Not saying they’re not good papers but what happens is that there’s so much pressure to publish that people are reinventing the wheel much too often. Uh, it’s important to reinvent the wheel because otherwise the wheel is forgotten. Part of our job is to reinvent the wheel in some sense. But it’s just happening so much that because of the pressure to publish that, especially grad students, do not check the literature at all. And they’re just re putting out, somebody like me who’s been around a long time really sees it, they’re just not checking the literature at all, and you see the same thing that came, that they should have seen, that this is twenty years old, thirty years old, hmm, they don’t even check ten years old. And it keeps coming out so, so the big problem of course is that there is many more mathematicians now. So there was a movie, I don’t know if you’ve heard of this comedy called The Russians are Coming? Have you ever saw or heard about this movie?... The Russians land on the coast and it’s a comedy. They invade the US by accident, the submarine landed by accident. So anyway, in mathematics we have a saying that ‘the Russians are coming, the Russians are coming and the Chinese are here.’ So, there are so many Chinese mathematicians and they are publishing but the Chinese are maybe more guilty than others of not checking the literature, they’re putting out a lot of papers, so the literature is being flooded by reinventing the wheel and this is, I think the biggest, the biggest problem in keeping up, is, you don’t want to keep reading, because a lot of the time you’re not sure the results are really new and important. Yeah, so, I think, yeah, I’m not sure, there’s still a few journals that are really tough and very, very serious, so you know that when articles come out there it’s been looked over by serious referees and it’s very rare that it’s going to be something that’s republished twenty years ago. So there’s several of these that are very serious. So, those journals I definitely look at when they come out and they send the table of contents if you ask them to, so I get emails from them. And so, when I see an article there that looks related, I definitely look at it.

Well, I think if you really want to keep up to date there are a lot of resources out there so it’s, I don’t think difficult to find things if you put in some effort, so I’d have to say they didn’t put in much effort.

Yes, that’s me… I mean, so I think that in terms of actions, the reason I stopped, for example, following the arXiv, is just that, there’s just too much out there. Out of very day if there’s a hundred new papers, maybe in a week let’s say a thousand new papers, maybe there’s three that really are of interest to me. So looking at all of these abstracts to find the three is really, it’s very, very time consuming for a low reward in a sense. On the other hand, if I become aware of a paper, then there might be immediate rewards that are, that, because, there could be low hanging fruit, maybe I know how to, um, how to expand on that paper in a way that the author doesn’t know because I know certain techniques or I know certain things they don’t know. So that’s one thing, that’s why I don’t follow the arXiv. Of course in MathSciNet on the other hand , it takes very long delay before you get anything on there so this is, so it’s not stale information because mathematics, things are, uh, have certain permanence to it, um, but it will take a longer time for me to be aware of things through MathSciNet. And the ability of MathSciNet to navigate from one paper to a paper that refers to it, is really what really helps me. I don’t search by keywords that much, although I sometimes do. In a sense I know there’s some alerts you can set, but I don’t know I’m very successful at setting those alerts. I’ve tried, but I find that, yeah I’ve not been very successful at doing that. Perhaps I need to spend a couple of hours thinking about how to set those alerts and do things so that every researchers, that are, that I, yeah, that’s basically how I know how to do it, right, is by researcher. I’ve not spent the time to really set it up. But then that doesn’t help with things, with researchers I don’t know exist. Maybe I should, just brainstorming here, trying to take from other fields. I know that we have students that work with us as research assistants but they’re not really research assistants in mathematics, that’s typically not what they are, right? That is, they do their own research and they are students, we guide them through their own research. But I know in other fields that you really, they will work on the research for the professor, right? Um, but maybe in a sense I need someone to do, maybe that’s one solution? I should have a student, like they’re being trained and I tell them what I need and every day there is their task to spend the 15 minutes to look at the arXiv and see what’s out there and then warn me if something is… I don’t know, just thinking. It doesn’t work every semester because I don’t have students every semester. 

commenting on setting up and using alerts Well, it’s just that I did set a couple of them up, things that crossed my mind at the time. But it’s time, it takes time to set them up, right, first of all. It’s not as automatic as me, uh let’s say, saying ok, I’m interested in prof. A, B, C, D, if you have something in this let me know, right? It’s, you have to subscribe, you have to enter things, so there’s an expansion of time. If I was to right down a list right now of 50 people that one should track, then I would need to spend maybe 5 minutes on each of these 50 people, and so, I think I’ve done it for 4 or 5 of these people and it’s ok. But if they don’t publish a paper in a year or two years, so maybe I get 5 or 6 alerts or something like that since I set them up two or three years ago. I guess I have these automatic alerts of people citing me. I think that was in Web of Knowledge. But this is always an extra little thing and it’s not clear what benefit I’m having from those services. 

Yeah, typically responding to the use of students… I have 2 students, undergrad students working for me this summer, I have a masters student and a PhD student. I would say in mathematics all of those… like if I was an engineer for example, I have a lab, then each of those would have a task in the lab, right? When I did my PhD I had a friend who was in an engineering lab so he was responsible for the lab, right, and early on he was responsible for some experiments, etc., etc. But in mathematics that’s not really, first of all they’re not necessarily as knowledgeable as we are, obviously, they’re just getting started. If you’re in a lab then maybe there are some tasks that don’t require much training, that as you go in the hierarchy then it’s, it’s not necessarily… I mean you don’t want the person who is trying to get these million dollar grants to be washing the little tubes and filling them with whatever. You can have an undergrad do that because you can explain to the undergrad in about 10 minutes how to do it. But it’s not even the professor that teaches the undergrads, maybe it is the masters student that’s responsible, masters students will be responsible for doing something else that maybe he got trained by the PhD student, right? And so, and then the PhD student train the next generation. And that’s how you can have these labs that are very, very productive, uh, because somehow the scientist is able to spend time thinking about the scientific direction, not about all of these little things. Well, in mathematics, I just find it hard to do such a thing. I did it a little bit last summer I should say. When you came to the room and I taught the students how to do a bibliography search, then I did, I knew I was preparing for my NSERC grants, so I did send some of these students to scour the literature on some certain topics and they did come up with things I didn’t know existed. But I was, in a sense a lot of work for me to. It was not entirely perfect in the way it all happened.

Oh, ok. I think one reason could be just because nowadays new research comes out too fast with too much information, too much data, and even with the same phenomenon some people interpret in different ways, in different sense, and with different understanding. So I think it could be attributed to the fact that the development is too fast. Another reason could be that nowadays research topics become more diverse than before. Take the actuarial science as an example, the research topics might be relatively homogenous among actuarial researchers in the past. But now it’s much more diversified. This might be the same for other areas as well. 

Yeah well, partly it’s what we’ve already covered. It’s that you have to assign it sufficient priority that you get it done. Research is one of those things that doesn’t have to be done at a particular time. It doesn’t have a deadline in the same way that your teaching or maybe some reports you have to write have. A number of things have imminent deadlines but nevertheless, it is possible to assign it a high enough priority that you get work done on it regularly. But, it’s easy to convince yourself that it’s not possible. And of course everybody has times where they get extremely busy and other stuff falls by the wayside. So maybe it was something that I did struggle with when I was doing a heavy administrative job. There wasn’t really enough time and I decided that the research was important to me, that working with graduate students was important to me. That’s where I wanted to spend a significant part of my time. So I’ve not done any major administrative posts since then. That was a conscious decision, and that’s not to say that they aren’t valuable. They are valuable, but you have to decide where you think you could make the best contribution, that’s best for you and your career and various other things. You can’t do everything. There isn’t an unlimited amount of time and there are a lot of administrative jobs. If you commit to one, I believe you should do it well but, you have to recognize there is price to pay. Some people are better than others at compartmentalizing their time. It’s not easy in my opinion, if you’re running something, if you’re a Department Chair, or Dean, you’ve got so many things pulling at you. It get into your head, right, and it’s hard to turn that off. And if you can’t turn it off and do other things, then you have to decide are you going to do administration or are you going to do research. There are a few people who can do both, but, nobody can do research at a really high level and do administration at a really high level at the same time. I just don’t believe that. It just that both of them take a significant commitment. So, it is just a matter of priorities and people make different choices. Responding to a time that you said you were struggling with the research component, you weren’t able to keep up to date with the information that was out there Oh yes, that was certainly true, it was not so easy to keep up. I could still go to conferences and things, but there was less time. More importantly I didn’t have time to even to think about my own work.

Personally, it could be that you know you're very busy and you know you just don't have time. It's possible. So if you're have a full teaching schedule with a lineup of students at your door. And then you have to do your lectures and then maybe you have to do some marking or if they have to take care of something, so I don't know what that means but in a meeting or something. Right. And then you go home and you have two or three kids or no kids but you're busy right. And then you just don't get there.

Maybe they don't find it fun going looking for things or maybe there's too many places you'd have to go to so it feels overwhelming like should I look here or should I look there? In the bad old days or the good old days there was web of science and that was it… Yeah I mean it's fun doing active outreach to seek this information to go looking for stuff that's the fun part… Getting overwhelmed with other things and forgetting to do it. That's the main one. Yeah just too many things on your mind so you don’t think of it.

I think it’s, again, just the slow nature. Also, in math, we love to talk about old, fancy problems. Like, the people that make the big bucks, the people that are working at Waterloo, the Jim Gillilans … um, no that’s graph theory. But, like, these big big researchers -- the Terrence Taos the Jim Gillilans. They're doing problems that are old. They’re fifty, sixty-year-old problems that are hard. They’ve stumped sort of the best minds of the twentieth century. And, that’s what they’re doing. So, if they, you know, increase a bound by, like, a tiny epsilon, it doesn’t, it’s like  OK, great, no one really cares. Like, unless they are doing these ground-breaking new proof techniques, then everybody cares but everybody finds out anyway, ‘cause it’s all anybody talks about. And, no one's gonna improve that bound for another twenty, thirty years. So, you get these, like, huge cycles of knowledge. Um, and then there’s smaller, like the smaller pieces, sort of, like … so, one thing I do is Cops and Robbers and so it’s a very new thing. It was introduced in, like, the 80s and it’s …  sort of kind of came … really hit a big thing in the early 2000s, mid-2000s, um 2010s, and now is like on the decline again. So that you can keep up with through colleagues and conferences, but again, because we are only meeting once a year, once every other year, it doesn’t move as quickly. So, I think they think that they’re not keeping up-to-date because there’s not as much to keep up-to-date with. And, the big things, everybody talks about. Mathematicians are chatty chatty people. And, everyone wants to know, “oh, I read this paper; have you read this paper? It was an important paper, so you should have read it.” Or, “oh you didn't read it? I’m a better mathematician than you.” So, there’s a little bit of that.

I think time is important. I also think a lot of mathematicians keep to themself. And, they’re not (mathematicians are social creatures). But I think ... they also, like … they’re working on what they’re working on and unless they’re ready to change research gears, they’re not looking at what else is out there. They’re, like, this is what I am doing and I’ve got alerts on my phone if any paper comes out but otherwise, who knows, you know, what anyone else over there is doing? You know, “I’m doing this.” So, I think there’s a weird ecosystem.

I think it’s the overwhelming amount of knowledge creation we are having. It just overwhelms. I just came from Name - all of those are books from the University of Name. Just go to Math Library. It’s impossible just to open the first page. The subject, the topics, the expertise, the complexity. It’s overwhelming, so it’s natural for people … at least I do that … to protect yourself, you just don’t look at everything. Well, I mean, otherwise, you just … it’s overwhelming. Information is pretty accessible, right? Of course, you know better than me, that the journals … we are very lucky. I have access to RULA and U of T but I have colleagues in country that, they don’t have access to journals. So, I take it for granted. But, if I was in that situation, I was going to tell you about the journal access. Open access is great, but I mean, the main thing is the system is broken and we produce the papers, we edit them, and they own them, and they make money. That’s the main thing. Another thing is, um, there’s not much benefit from the referee process because nowadays the benefit is if people commenting upon, asking you questions like an open text, correct? That’s not happening. The arxives arXiv, they are not doing that. There’s almost no platform where you can do that, scientifically. There’s peer-review, but after that, people can ask you questions. We are the authors, we are supposed to know. This is happening in blogs, so it’s like your paper is like a blog. Because, you know, it would be fruitful. You can say “no, I didn’t know; I didn’t try this.” Remember that the paper always is a glossy surface in the sense that it presents results so it becomes published. The loss of information when you publish a paper. So, we waste a lot of energy at times deciding what paper to read and what not just because we know information is not … is going to be correct but you don’t know if the full story is there.

I can only speak from my own experience where it is devoting more time to these things and if you have other commitments of an administrative nature, or curriculum development, or engagements or running an institution, department or faculty then obviously finding the time to invest in keeping pace with your research and moving ahead is going to be certainly a challenge. I would say that the number one factor is time. I do not see technology as being a serious issue in Canada. I think we have the technology, we have library support… we have all the available technology, all the means to have the information - if we decide if we want to seek and find it. So - I don’t see technology as being a barrier to keeping up to date.  

I think there are two sides to that – whether you’re interested in scholarly information towards your research versus scholarly information towards your teaching. I think in mathematics many of my colleagues don’t keep up to date or scholarly information about teaching. It’s been a tradition of doing it - this way, what works for them, and many of their students so they don’t keep up to date because there isn’t an interested in that area… The reason that researchers don’t keep up to date with scholarly information from my point of view is their research is quite narrow and you wouldn’t really need to look beyond your immediate search to find the information and that takes a lot of time. Often, the pressure of publication doesn’t allow you to do that.  

Time. This is the answer from almost everyone. It’s time in our busy schedule and it is the speed of progress. It is definitely both, it’s not lack of interest when in this job, because we love it, we want to know more, so it is not lack of interest… I think it is time and going so fast so that’s what I meant when I may fall in that twenty-nine percent, because I see train going and I try to run. 
Well, I think as a researcher that’s been around a long time you never know, I just, well things are really, yeah, I think there’s a problem. I think lots of researchers are saying it, there’s a serious problem. So plagiarism is one problem of course. I got a paper to referee and I was reading it and it sounded really familiar and then I realized it was cut and paste from my own article. So I should be sort of proud in a way, right? Flattered? But, uh, yes, so people sometimes do it by accident even, they’re publishing so often that they’re cutting and pasting from their own articles because they forgot that they started their paper with a previous paper and they left big chunks of the previous paper in it. So there’s a lot of plagiarism going on and some of the serious journals have got some serious machinery trying to fight that. So that’s one of the problems. The other problem is when you go to conferences, I mean a lot of the talks are very good but, um, the pressure on graduate students to publish and to give talks before they even graduate, um, this is one of the, I think the sad thing that developed so I can’t blame them because that’s how they’re going to get jobs and they know it, but you go to a conference and maybe 20% nowadays is graduate students giving talks, the professors just having their grad students give talks rather than them giving talks. Um, and a lot of it is then, yeah, similarly it’s just rehash of stuff that shouldn’t be rehashed. So, yeah, there’s a problem, it’s being flooded by stuff, and eventually I guess it’s going to be just impossible to keep up. That’s what, it’s my opinion and I’m not the only one. So, one problem is plagiarism, the serious journals are fighting it, another problem is just a lot of people cheating the system, people start journals and then the editors-in-chief tell people submit articles to their journal that if you don’t reference these papers in your paper you’re not going to get published and so the citation indices and these things are being cheated, are being gamed. So, there is a lot of animosity towards these publishing companies because they were making all this money, but in some sense they kept things honest. It was expensive but it kept the number of journals down and there were people working for, making sure, perhaps that this cheating was not going on, this gaming was not going on. Yeah, so, I would say it’s impossible to keep up because I would say 70% of the articles that are, that you know are probably not worth looking at, yeah. And that’s why people are, when they want to publish, they really want to publish in it, so, when you get uh, somebody who’s applying for a job they want this journal and this journal on their CV, because they know the people who actually looking and know what’s going on, they’re not going to take it seriously unless you have some of the serious journals on your CV. Of course, you should take things that I say with a bit of a grain of salt, I’m told I exaggerate the negativity sometimes.
Hmm, I don’t know, I mean, I’d say I don’t think it’s that hard to be up to date if you’re serious about it. In the survey did they give any idea of why they think they’re not up to date? Time - Yeah, so time is obviously an issue, so there, I mean, I guess a matter of priorities, yeah. Certainly it does take time, I don’t think it takes a lot of time. So if you’ve got, I mean you’re interested in a particular problem and you know one paper it doesn’t take very long to find out who’s, everyone who’s cited it.
It’s a good question, I don’t know that, makes me feel not as much as an expert as I claim to be, in a sense. Uh, I mean that being said, that I still have all the problems that I’m trying to solve right now, so, maybe that’s the advantage of being in mathematics, things are fast but slow in a sense. So being in mathematics I can work on these projects, not care about the other things that are around. So as a researcher I feel that I’m fine, but I could be more, a better supervisor, for example, if I was more aware of everything that was out there. Partially because we need to find problems for students, we need to guide them in certain directions. And that’s what I don’t necessarily know, like I know whether projects I have, some of them are way too difficult for my students. But if I was better aware of whole literature then I would have a better time, maybe, as a supervisor, which in turn would make me more productive as a researcher as well, so that’s tricky, right? So, that is, I find it, right now my sort of research output is very much dependent on my effort and the students, the team of students have their own research that I can guide a little bit, but, I’ve not been able to incorporate it in the same way maybe someone in engineering would have to, where all these students are part of their research output, where you put an idea out and the papers are being written with your ideas. Yeah, so I think that’s the drawback… so that’s not necessarily an answer about my feelings, but laughter.
Uh, I suppose this researcher is affiliated with the university so in that case I think some training, some workshops would be helpful. I’m not actually aware that this group of people, and certainly myself, I’d admit I’m not really completely kept up to date, but in my opinion most likely these people who feel very much not, you know, kept up to date, maybe they have less access to internet, or maybe they are not comfortable with new modern technology. I don’t know whether this is the reason, but it seems to me it’s quite convenient to access most of the information, as long as one has time and know how to use Google Scholar for example, or other platforms.
I didn’t like that. I get a lot of pleasure from doing research, and if you do some interesting work, that work lasts. In mathematics, it lasts decades. If you’re an administrator and you write a good report, nobody remembers you for that laughter.
I feel like I'm not doing my job. I mean my job because I like it a lot. And if there is a day in which I'm not doing anything of math including looking for some information or something. It's a day wasted. That’s just me right. Yeah. That's why they're browsing during the TV or like I find these niches so that you can combine stuff.
I think so that there is an emotional component when falling behind. I think it would hit more if I found there was something I haven't seen you know like. Right. I know I went to visit someone and they made me aware of something. So there's almost as professional pride in oh I didn't find that you found that. Oh dear… Yeah exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. that I feel successful.
If we’re at Name, I feel like they all feel like they did the worst academics and they’re never gonna be good enough and they’re always … like ‘cause that’s how my friends feel, so -- which I know should be my experience. But I see this time and time again as my friends, they’re like, “you know I didn’t get the notification from the arXiv,” like “oh, you didn’t know that this person was doing this.” It’s like nobody knows, nobody cares, nobody’s paying attention. People care about their research, they’re not, they’re not looking at what’s going on over here. Like, I don’t know what’s happening in differential equations. Like, I ... who, who knows? That’s over there. Apparently there’s lots of really interesting research and they’re battling cancer and modelling things like that. Great, that’s over there and this is my niche over here. Um, and I think mathematicians are notorious for being sort of self-deprecating. And they’re sort of like, “oh, you know I didn’t, I didn’t read this and I’m not as good or I didn’t understand this paper so I’m not as smart.” And, that’s a big problem in the community. So, I think they probably feel like that.
Well, I mean, as I said, I have colleagues that have that problem, but people always find a way of getting the information: writing to the author, correct? I mean, mathematicians are very open. Most colleagues, so far, have been putting the papers somewhere. But, that would be a problem if, yeah, if that way of acting changes. Yeah. Because, journals, for example, Elsevier now, there’s no access to their journals, correct? So, I cannot access to Elsevier, many Elsevier journals… But, you are right, I mean I remember times in the past where you were desperate to find that paper. I remember that. Asking for interlibrary loan, but now I don’t have that feeling anymore; it’s just better. But, in the past I remember, yeah, a bit of, ah that paper will give you the key, which of course never happens. But now, if it is not this one, I get another one. So we are doing OK in that sense but, of course, it is a system in flux. The open access is just … I just published in a journal in country, um, a well ranked, number one I think. And the whole thing’s open access. We didn’t have to pay anything. That was surprising. That was fantastic.
Well, it always feel like being a bit behind… there is always a kind of a pressure, and I think that going to conferences, it feels like I am giving myself time now… I go, I can present a paper, but mostly I give myself time to see what is there, what is new, someone will have done the work of doing research for me because I will hear, I am interested, then I can look at the papers and the references and look at that. It is giving myself time to think and hear what is up there… so then it is the bridge from this, then I can go and look for more. I need to find the time after as well.
Yeah, I think that that’s true responding to a comment that in-person choices, talking to colleagues, are so important, I mean, uh, talking with colleagues is probably the best and going to conferences and talking to colleagues at conferences. But one of the things that I think, uh, is missed and it sounds like work, is refereeing. I think refereeing and editorial work is, especially if you’re lucky enough to referee a paper from a good journal by good people then you really get a chance to, first of all, to see what they’re doing, but of course the good people really have looked carefully to see what the latest thing around is, and their doing the latest thing and they’re not just re-inventing the wheel. So, like right now I’m refereeing a paper, I should cover it so you can’t see from who, but, uh, and yeah, I, it’s just amazing how much I’ve picked up on the latest tools and what they consider the… and they also go into the literature and present thirty year old papers. What they thought for the last thirty years, this is the paper that did the most result on some particular area, right. So, yeah, so, refereeing I thought, and of course, um, reading, unfortunately yeah, reading the really good papers in top journals. Yeah, the top journals still have some really excellent authors and excellent papers so that’s a similar phenomenon. And if you’re lucky enough to talk to the top people at conferences, yeah. But conferences are still, it’s interesting that uh, gosh it must be thirty years ago, maybe not that long, but people predicted that conferences are going to die. Nobody is going to go to conferences anymore, we’re all going to do online Skype, blah, blah, blah. And instead there are so many conferences now that you can’t keep up with the conferences and they’re like top, big conferences, not just small ones. So, just the opposite happened. It’s interesting how predictions can go so wrong.

Um, well, I guess when responding to a question how do you know who the top people are? I would say for myself I would know the top people by their reputation on who has the top results in the last few years and, and uh, just who I think has the best results, best reputation in terms of, uh, having the best contribution in my area, I guess my opinion.

I know it’s still really useful to talk to people, yeah, and I’d say going to conferences you go to talks and people talk about things that may be a little outside your area and so you, like, I mean one of the things I do at conferences is you know, people reference papers in their talks and, well, if it looks of interest you know I sort of write it down and then try to dig it up afterwards or you know, just interested in their talk and so then go and have a look to see what sort of things they’ve published. One of the drawbacks of going to, like all of the papers are electronic now, so I found one of the drawbacks is go and look at a new issue of this one journal and there’s a bunch of papers in it, you sort of download the one that’s relevant to you. Whereas back in the day you’d go to the Library and browse through the journal and maybe, like I used to have a subscription to the journal so I’d end up reading things that are not directly relevant to projects I’m working on, whereas now I just tend to download just things that are directly relevant. So I think you lose a bit of breadth. So going to a conference is certainly helped with that. So, getting back to your question, I think maybe conferences you get a broader view, whereas like electronic resources, for me anyway, tend to be much more focused or on things that are more directly relevant to what I’m doing.

Right, um, well I think, first of all, there’s some of these, ‘in person’ meant also by email or phone, or things like that, right? So, um, you make contacts at t a conference, you, I mean I can just, my own experience, I organized in 2004, I think, no 2007 I organized a conference, we had a bunch of people. A couple years later I saw, I was at another conference and one of the people was someone I was at the previous conference. I did not recognize them, like it was not someone very familiar to me but of course they knew me very well. And, uh, started chatting, I felt a little bad that I didn’t remember them very well so I took the time afterwards to look at what they’re doing, and to invite them, that generated a collaboration and that particular co-author, uh, I would say, is someone that I would consult if I want to know is a result about this being that, right? So this is, uh, it’s very anecdotal right now but this is just one way where you get to, mathematics is very vast, there’s lots of results already known, there’s lots of results being discovered, and very often we need these discussions where you sort of brainstorm a little bit, uh, you argue about various things, and then you’re being sent in various directions. And very often it can be followed up later by email or by saying oh, want was this paper you talked about, and you get information this way. But I would say participation in seminars and workshops and things like that, that you don’t, you also get to meet people you don’t expect. That you don’t know yet, that aren’t necessarily the person you would go to naturally. And so you develop these relationships, relationships and things are important because mathematics is actually hard. People are not necessarily willing to spend time helping you understand something, unless they have a relationship with you. If they have a relationship then you’re more willing to answer. If it’s an email that’s going to take me an hour to write, and if it’s a nobody, someone I don’t know, I don’t care about, I might not have the time to teach them, right? I’m teaching already a lot of students, I’m teaching a lot of people, I don’t have the time to spend on that. Because maybe I have to reflect before answering as well, I’d have to spend time. And so I’d say that’s the reason why in person, that’s very important. Now, I’d say the other reason why we’re saying this is, uh, most important of the, or this is, or more successful there, is because of the drawbacks I mentioned earlier, right? To some extent we’re already going to disseminate our knowledge, we’re already discussing with co-authors about things, and so while we’re doing this we are asking, we will tell each other stuff, there will be time when we’re like oh, did you hear what this person proved? Oh, ok, right, I didn’t know about that. Um, as you chat with collaborators, they might think about certain examples that exist and they might refer to a paper, and as I go to that paper I realize there’s this theorem, there are these ideas that are there. And, probably would have been better if I knew of these already, but very often that’s not how it happens. But I think, they’re both very, they’re important tools, but, you will get something out of it that you wouldn’t have otherwise because even if I know the existence of a paper, I know about it, maybe someone has a different view of it. But also, they become so important because we’re bad at the rest.

Yeah, I think in academia some people may be working on more wider, different topics, some may be more focused. So for those people very focused, I think it’s important to talk on phone, talk in person, with other researchers because the group of people on the focused topic is relatively small and it is easy to target. This will stimulate possible collaborations. And also, nowadays research usually digs so deep that if we just digest research outcome of others by our own, sometimes it may not be comprehensive enough, or not really efficient, so we have to keep the focus on the research area we are interested in and have to know all the details. So, sometimes talking to the experts in relevant topics or areas is very much useful. And some topics and some research may not be formalized yet in a publication or in working paper circulated yet. Some project may take more than one year, or even longer, to complete, so a discussion with the people who are just starting a project may be very useful so that one can become aware of what peer researchers are doing.

Well, certainly from the point of view of knowing what’s going on. Of course, if you want to be up to date, you also have to sit down by yourself and read the papers. But, in terms of getting research done, it’s quite collaborative these days. If you look back to journals, say in the ‘30s, ‘40s, ‘50s, almost all papers are singly authored, and most of them are short. And now you see the trend is towards multiple authors, 2 or 3 authors is more common I think than singly authored papers now. And papers are longer, more fully developed. It’s a different way of doing business. I think outsiders think of math as something sort of sterile, and that people would sit in their office alone and contemplate their navel and come up with something useless. But, it’s actually quite collaborative and getting together with your colleagues that you work with, who are usually, no who are frequently at other universities, you meet up by visiting them or having them visit you or by meeting up at conferences. And while you can do collaborative work at a distance, sharing information, TeX is a very important thing in mathematics too, for communicating, because you can send documents back and forth very easily and you can edit them. But you need to get together once in a while, for brainstorming, or just sitting over a beer and discussing problems often is what leads to a new project. If you have a project underway you can continue that at a distance, communicating in various ways, but conferences or visiting collaborators are a good way to kick start that kind of process. Conferences are very good for finding out what’s going on in the broader sphere in your field. You hear lots of talks on different things, you hear about something new that interests you, and then you go out and read a bunch about it. Its advertising, conferences are advertising.

Well when you're in person and you discuss right you see. So let's say you're at the conference right then you see about five or six talks in a day. More than that I cannot take right. Maybe it's something I think about it you know you didn't browse you didn't just hit on it. When you're browsing usually you just look at things that are related to your research directly right. It's a line and I'm looking at a certain topic or maybe I would look at two or three more. But I can not cover everything. So in conferences, it's often that something pops up that I just didn't know about. And I find it interesting. It's also you know that going to a conference gives you the feeling that you belong to a community, you belong to a family. There are people that I know for 20 years, 25 years. We get old together when we're together we're happy that we are together. Maybe they're my former enemies that we were on the market for the same jobs as you know 15 years ago. Actually we are those people. But now we're best friends in the way. We are interested in the same thing things that bring us together. So you know seeing them once or twice a year is like hey you know, who its the big family reunion. Yeah… Responding to a comment that when you're at conferences and something pops up that's different that someone else might know, will you go talk to them. Oh yeah. Yes. Definitely

I don't do that as much as I would like conversing and talking with colleagues and I certainly don't do it deliberately. It's more I'll see somebody at a conference and talk about something mentioned. ‘Did you see so-and-so’s paper. So less of a factor personally I think… It's not really a people activity that keeps me up-to-date. Personally. I mean I would I would be probably number three and four on the questions list. Or perhaps one or 2. Occasionally I browse through MathScinet about once a year. .. Or conversing with people sometimes like a research visit. So I’ll go to visit someone to work on research and sometimes you will have a problem planned or we're going to go over this research or sometimes we'll not. But then also things like that get brought up. So yeah a research visit.

I think that is where you are getting the most accurate information, especially if you hear something from three different people, you know it’s important. And, that’s, that’s a big one for me. If I hear three people say, “oh, did you read this person’s paper?” you’re like, “Oh, OK, three people.” Like, usually, it’s one person who reads your paper, or nobody, so the fact that three people are asking me if I’ve read it, that’s telling me this is probably a good paper to read and get involved with. Ahm, and I think it’s also the way information flows the most in mathematics is just by word-of-mouth. Is just by sending an email to colleagues. Is by picking up the phone. Is, and even at conferences, I think most of the research that’s being done, and most of the new ideas, are not during the problem-solving sessions. It’s when everybody goes for lunch or everybody goes for a beer after. That’s when mathematicians are thriving. That when they’re coming up with the new interesting ideas, making connections. They’re gonna go form a new research group to do something different. So, I think just the way mathematicians network and form their research areas is through that sort of interpersonal communication. Even though they’re bad at it, they are interesting. Um, I think that’s why it’s, it’s like that, and less about Googling on the internet, ‘cause we don’t have Google. I didn’t write that. The first paper I ever wrote was my master’s thesis. So, we don’t, we don’t go there. We’re not like other academics.

I just came from Country,. I talked to my two my main collaborators. It makes the world of a difference. We may Skype once a week, but once we interact in person three times, we move much faster. It’s just, the intuition, you transmit the ideas and you are more intense. You are engaged because you know you are going to see your colleague in person so you prepare. You study this before and you know you are going to see him again in a couple days so you keep engaged. Here is Skype and then it’s far away; you are not engaged. So, yeah, it make a big difference. And the good thing is that you don't need to meet a lot: a few times a year. I was in Germany on sabbatical for a couple of months and also fantastic after months we are on the same wavelength. And, we can communicate because we have the same dialogue, I mean the same language. Especially with someone new, you are just collaborating. 

I get that on my own when asked about keeping up-to-date and importance of colleagues and other in-person interactions, but you are right and people do that by talking to a stranger. But, usually, people meet with people they know so you are talking to someone that is in the same type of field and you just stretch out of your group of friends for a bit, yeah, you get to talk to someone new. It’s mostly personal thing. So, once you think similarly, you complement each other, but at the beginning, the language is different, you may feel like I’m going to say something wrong. Yeah, so the personality thing is crucial. So, it’s very important to meet. It’s very hard to find a collaborator. Once you have one, you keep it. I have very good friends, which is very hard to collaborate, because intellectually, you are on different wavelengths… You may think that you talk a lot about … with your colleagues, but you always end up talking about something else. I don’t know why. That happens. Sometimes, yeah. Sometimes you end up collaborating with a colleague just because you have a student in common or visitor, but people are on their own little areas, so once the areas don’t overlap, it does not. Looks like we live in a specialized area.

Yes, this makes sense to me. I guess that it is the way present research is going whereby we have a very specific goal in a research project and we have a number of individuals working with, so the conversation with colleagues, I don’t know if you call electronically visual conversation with a person that the way, certainly if you have people that are outside your immediate area this is the way that you do it so you use email to set agendas and so on and then you meet in some way through the visual communications so the person is there, but the agenda has been set if you like so that people can think ahead… The first part searching scholarly information databases is more individual - you would do if you are focusing in on something and this is part of your job or the meeting then you would do that and you would follow that up because you are responding and conversing with your colleagues in person about what you found and you are hoping that everyone brings something to that conference. So - I would have said that twenty years ago this would not have been the case in that I would have worked much more individually than with colleagues. I try to generate conversations more in the areas of teaching and outreach of mathematics towards the public… Conversing with colleagues in person, by email, phone, etc. would not be for my research. Perhaps – not that often. I would send an email and before that, I would send a letter.

I can only talk about mathematics education because for the last twenty-five years has been my purpose. Mathematics education it is very much a collegial type of approach. It’s much more than mathematics. If you are focusing on pure mathematics… there are different areas of mathematics where that interaction is important. I came through applied mathematics and theoretical physics so I would have said for me that discussion portion was fundamental not only for my research, but with people outside. You’re basically being open minded…  The discussion would entail how do you see my work interacting with your works? how did you get this idea? You get that cross-pollination which extends beyond the narrow area of your research.   

Maybe it comes back to someone who has done work for you seeing the literature through the eyes of someone else, the knowledge, the interpretation, and put in the context of a common interest… So – it is as if someone is talking with you as a light conversation and that person who has that knowledge, and talking with someone helps make connections – it makes research come together. As opposed to doing your research myself… I have to bring things together that would be of interest to make the connections... This person may make these connections so I would say Ahhhh… It is enriching and we can bring different perspectives on the importance of, or the applications of, some of the research.

Well, I guess, colleagues at conferences, and, like, email tends to be with people I know better. So, I don’t really learn about new publications via email.

Well, yeah, so. I guess I’m at the stage in my career that I don’t go to conferences that are, my career and personal life because it’s a balance of both, right? I have small children so I don’t travel a lot, um, so I only go really to conferences where I’m invited. Whereas when I was starting up, then you try to find conferences and you apply to go to these conferences. I don’t do that anymore. Maybe I would if I wanted to get into a new topic, that’s what I would do. But anyways, so, then there’s uh, what was the question again, about how do I find people? Conferences, Skype, email. Very often we will more Skype than email. We invite people to give seminars, we go and give seminars. Um, I find it, inviting someone to give a seminar is very helpful in a sense because they will come, they will interact with the people in the group, with me, with somebody else, they will spend maybe two days here, they will give a seminar, very often I will hear a story in the seminar that could lead to have a little bit more in depth discussion about what’s happening. With my own collaborators I Skype a lot. But I still find that sometimes, just being in the same room is really helping. I remember one paper that would not have been finished if we had not been in this room there while my collaborator and I were both at the Canadian Mathematical Society meeting which was happening redacted. And there was a final little problem so we had to be both of us in front of the paper, but with that collaborator we had lots of Skype talks and we visited each other very often. Now the, another reason why these visits are important is they sort of focus your time when you are meeting, when you are preparing the psychological aspect of preparing for that meeting and being there and not having the distraction of everything in your life. Somehow when you’re away or when you have a visitor visiting then you can sort of send away all of the students, you can send away all of the committee work, and you can prioritize. If I’m working on 5 different projects then when I have someone here then I’ll work on that project while that person is here.

This is the network. This should be gradually accumulated during the academic life. A graduate student may start attending a workshop and conferences to get to know some people working on the relevant areas and then talking to them in person and then later on maybe email for further discussion. This way, one gets to know those people are working on the topics she or he is interested. This also highlights the importance of conferences.

I usually talk with my friends laughter, I collaborate with two kinds of people, my friends and my postdocs and students. I’ve had a number of collaborations that have gone on for long periods of time. With these things, there tends to be an ebb and flow, but you meet up and you talk again and maybe you find a new project. Often my problem is too many project rather than not enough projects. That’s another advantage of co-authors though, if they make some progress and they send it to you, it pushes you to think about the project so that you can contribute your share. If you work on something by yourself and you get busy, nobody nags you. Plus, there’s just the fact that if you’re working on something by yourself ,then normally you wouldn’t share that with people until you thought it was complete. But if you’re working with somebody else, then you make a small success and you tell them right away. That gets them excited and then they think about it and maybe they make another step. I think that is an important part of it, because it’s a social thing. That doesn’t mean that you don’t have to sit down on your own and do the hard work, figure stuff out, you do, but, it’s having somebody else who cares in the short term laughter.

Honestly, it’s early faculty. That’s the big one. Those are the people that are, ahm, young faulty, early career researchers, who are pushing these new ideas. So, I’m going to … so, together, me and, like, maybe some tenure-track professor. We’re gonna go to a conference and we are gonna hear an interesting idea from some big whig and together we’re gonna … well, you know what, here’s an interesting branch of that: ask that person if it’s interesting and the together we sort of create these new research areas. Ahm, it’s a lot .. It may be even early-tenured professors as well, but that, sort of, group between, sort of, PhD to recently-tenured is who’s rally pushing these new ideas. The people that are the long … been tenured, like, are just, like, “oh, I had this brilliant idea thirty years ago. Let me write a book on it, and I’ll coast through the rest of my career.” Um, so… But no grad student’s brave enough to think that there idea’s good enough. It’s gotta have that support from someone more important. Some grad students have bad ideas.

No, that is not surprising to me. That is true. I wouldn’t say that they are the two most important, but they are important to me. In fact, I can tell you that I sometimes hesitate to commit to attend a conference because of time issues and availability, but I change my mind and I decide to go precisely to meet certain people and to discuss with certain people with whom I wanted to have a discussion for some time about a certain aspect of research – so I go to conferences just to meet those people and to sit together around a cup of coffee and have a discussion about specific problems. 

I have noticed when attending conferences I meet mathematicians across the spectrum in terms of maturity and seniority. In fact, in developing countries young mathematicians are always present in a high number because they have the ambition to move their career forward and they are very often the most eager colleagues to reach out, to ask more mature mathematicians for discussion, for validation of the work that they do, and for invitations and propositions to write or do joint work… Sometimes we have to decline because we are too busy, but I can give you an example, in India for example, when I attend a conference in India, I always meet a substantial number of young mathematicians who show me their work and want me to comment on their work, and they are always present in large numbers… I think, for them, the opportunity to meet more senior colleagues face-to-face is a top priority. 

Hmm. So I try to encourage my students to, of course I try to have them do what I do so, um, I keep sending them papers if I come across a paper that’s important, and uh, yeah. Hmm. I guess, I guess more senior people would have, I would say, not everybody, but uh, a lot of them end up maybe not going out to different areas as much as they used to, just to hard to do. Maybe concentrate more on a smaller area, a concentrated area. I used to read Topology and uh, and different areas, now it’s just too hard to just keep up with optimization. Um hmm, so you want difference between grad students and faculty. No, I can’t say that I’ve noticed a difference between these groups, I can’t say I have, uh. Yeah, we sit here, you know when we work together, and we do, you know, I guess we’re, we’re using my fingers so we’re often doing what I do. We’re still using MathSciNet and checking, of course if we’re looking for a specific question we just look on the web to see if we can find it… responding to a question do you, um, you still use the webpage to sort of organize? Yeah, my webpage is like a, I don’t know, a diary, I’m not sure what the right word would be. Some sort of organizing tool for me since 1991. You know, I use it for my courses, I have all my courses from ’92-’93 still there, uh, and first thing I do when I teach it make a webpage and uh, put links for my students so that, what notes, what lecture notes I will use, what books I will use, what good references there are. And then I don’t use Learn as much, I use my webpage and have a link it to the homework etc.

responding to a comment when working with graduate students… do you feel like you’re showing them something new or you’re teaching them about MathSciNet, or is it something they’re already familiar with and you’re working on it together? Um, well, they’ve seen MathSciNet very quickly, but I’m not sure. Maybe when they first arrive it may be something new? But no, they’re, they’re pretty, they often teach me things about searching so, they’re pretty up on things. I wouldn’t say they’re learning about MathSciNet from me. But uh, so my webpage, so I started a webpage in 1991, so I was like, pretty well the first one around here and um, and what I did with my webpage is that I just used it for myself because back then there wasn’t any Google or anything, right? So I just used it, uh, to be able to keep track of things so I would be able to find things. So I had this long, you know, links and things for myself and I would even link to the Notre Dame cathedral, you know, I had links. Um, and so my webpage because the webpage for mathematicians from all around the world, uh, in the early years. And uh, so they would link, link to me, and go to me to find things, so that’s how I started, but then of course Google put me out of business, which I didn’t mind. But um, yeah so, so that’s what, so I still have a lot of that and I still do a little of that, I sort of collect things in groups, and so I can go and find things. It’s mainly for myself, I’m not sure if, how many people still use my webpage at all.

I have no idea. Actually, I never really talked to people about how they find things, so I don’t know, and I’ve, I don’t know, for some reason I use Science Citation Index a while ago and I’ve stuck with that, so I’ve not really explored different ones. So I can’t compare it to others… They’ve graduate students always seemed to manage to find a lot of things and I’ve never, sort of what to do or given them any instructions on how to do it. So to be honest I don’t know how they figure out how to do it, but they seem to be pretty good at finding things.

Yeah, when you’re, I think that I’ve observed that grad students and postdocs they will spend more time on the arXiv trying. In a sense they don’t have yet a research area that’s as defined, they are, so they might not, they probably don’t mind the extra time. They feel also the stress on their life is also great, they have to, they want to survive in that world and they have to spend more time. And they have not as many applications, which is totally crazy, I did not expect that when I was a, I thought I was very busy as a postdoc, but I didn’t realize how busy you become with administrative aspects and with supervision of students. I think that the younger crowd will have more time to spend time doing that type of work I was saying earlier that was not very, where the payoff was very small but could, potentially, be big if you find the 1 or 2, 3 papers a week. Also, I think they don’t have the network yet. Whereas, I rely and maybe we said like, I don’t know, how many, 29% no sorry, it was more, whatever it was, so in person 82% or 73% discuss with colleagues. Well, when you’re starting up you don’t have as many colleagues on a global scale, you have all of these local colleagues, all these other grad students that know about the same as you, or these post docs, but when you’re more established you have this global network. Yeah, that’s why there’s a difference… Yeah, I’d say the arXiv is the thing which is particular to people at the start of their career. I know some mathematicians that have been able to keep following the arXiv later on, but I’ve just not been able to do it. Yeah, the arXiv is the main place if you want to know what’s happening today. MathSciNet is delay. No, I’m not able to speak about that skills at all at being able to, you know, dive in to these databases and… Though I can tell you just this little experience I had with undergrad students last summer and trying to train them at doing that that uh, they’re not necessarily good at first at it. You really have to be taught how to do it so that, uh. Or even how to collect lots of information, they were not good at it. Remember I was explaining JabRef, right? This one example has many other things but just this ability, even then some of them will still just put down all the papers in a folder. And I said, ok well, what does it look like? Well, they still rely too much on their memory. They haven’t systematized a way to do it. And so, I think that’s one of my strengths, for example, having. I think there’s, all the weaknesses I’ve pointed out, those are places where I’ve not identified systems. I can do it on a short time, but I don’t have a system to automatically do it. But same thing when I, but my strength is systems so therefore when I look at the research, when I’m exploring, I will collect lots of information very fast because I’m good at putting the information in a way I can, I can keep it, in a way I that I can reasonably access it without having, so, yeah. We’re not all as good at these things.

Yeah, sure. I think faculty members are certainly much experienced in knowing the resources, databases, and journals. And grad students are new in research and they are in the middle, growing towards an experienced researcher, so usually they are much less informed about the resources. I think it’s very common in our department. Length of service, so, what does that mean?

Oh, yeah, yeah, ok. So, I think this is hard to say. Some older researchers have experiences and know all the resources, but some newer researchers may know better about new platforms. Let me think whether I have an example. In an extreme case, for example, some older researchers may still not be comfortable with downloading the electronic copy PDF to read and are still, would actually go to the Library to look at the hard copy. I know it’s rare, but this is an extreme case. And recently, there’s some network like Facebook, it’s called ResearchGate, so I think a new researcher may tend to use them more often than an older researcher. And that might be an option for some researchers. Yeah, there could be differences. I think this might be in the resources themselves that might differ from applied vs. theoretical research. For theoretical research I believe very much traditional journals or working papers are posted on some network, or you know, some website like SSRN might be the most important resources. But in the applied area the researchers in the university have to talk to people in the industry, they have to collaborate using their data or some other experiment results more often. That’s what I can think of. 

I think the common for graduate students’ practice is to gain this from the supervisor. When I assign the first project to my PhD students, we discuss where to start and sometimes I suggest they start from Google Scholar, and actually this is mostly for the Masters students because PhD students usually have some experience already, and they usually already know how to use Google Scholar. Because there are so many journals nowadays, some PhD students feel confused, they don’t know which kind of journals they should pay most attention to, often in their first year, I always have this kind of experience of, you know, suggesting a journal list to my PhD students.

Well, graduate students, when they start out, they don’t really know the literature. So, they do it differently. They get told by their supervisor go read this paper, go read that paper. They gradually learn to do the other things. You point out the existence of MathSciNet, arXiv, encourage them to watch arXiv and see if anything interesting comes along. You send them to conferences and tell them to listen and if they get excited about something, go learn about it. Graduate students can learn a lot more from books. Books are always recounting older material. Researchers have to keep up with the current literature, but graduate students can still learn a lot by books. I use books too of course, especially when I’m looking at other fields. Books are better in the sense that the material is organized and consolidated and streamlined, but usually you have to go to the literature. Good graduate students learn this, and they start watching arXiv and reading papers that interest them and filling in the background. But at first, they come and they tell you something they thought about and you say oh, you need to go learn this other thing, go look at this other book, or look at these papers. I think it’s a little daunting at first. So, new vs. older researchers, well over time you’ve been exposed to a lot of things, you’ve learned a lot of different things, you probably have a broader background of the kinds of things that you know. This compensates for the fact that you’re getting old, slowing down laughter. Yeah, I don’t know how to comment on applied vs. theoretical, exactly how that works. I’ve only worked on theoretical things.

I would expect so I don't know. You know I not want to speak for others but I would expect that the faculty member is somehow more broad than a grad student. The grad students because they're not they don't have enough perspective yet. Right. They're our younger colleagues. They might be a little bit more focused but I know they're people and people to be honest. You know it depends a lot on the personality of the researcher. Right. So as a grad student I used to go to the library a physical library. I still go to the library and I just look through them browse books and journals, and at those times the journals were in the library. So I was just browsing in the library. There's no particular reason. And even once I even wrote a note and you know I showed it to the supervisor of the time which was unrelated to what we were doing and he said oh wow you are a researcher. I was doing this by my own initiative but I don't know how grad student their grad students and there are grads students. I would then say all of the faculty is more active than the grad students and it's really up to the person. I think.

This applies as well new vs. older researchers keeping up to date.

I wonder whether older researchers have established networks of people and then they just sort of stay within the network. Well I talked to so-and-so at the conference or at the conference they have habits that maybe more people related or especially if they were older before all the Internet databases and things became available that's how they used to do it twenty five years ago.

Yes, I don’t think faculty members teach graduate students how to stay current. So, I learned how to get notifications from the arXiv from my friend, my grad student friends. Um, I think especially now we’re seeing a much bigger gap between faculty and grad students because grad students aren’t getting into these journals and we’re not paying for this access and we don’t necessarily always have access to these, like, email blasts from Elsevier, whoever. Grad students are, like, “we need to find these papers with more open access, more readily available.” And that’s why we like the arXiv. It’s just … and everything’s there, especially, too, because math is, takes so long to publish. Well, I don’t know how long it takes to publish other things, but math’s just so long and research is long, that, like, you may have spent three years researching a problem and then you’re writing the paper and now you are waiting another two years to publish it. You know, that’s six years. So, you stick that on the arXiv as soon, so you can claim that idea as your own. And we’re really good at, like, “this paper’s on the archive first, this is your paper.” And that’s why we stick it on the arXiv as soon as it’s ready. So, whenever you submit it to a journal, you submit it to arXiv the same day. It’s sort of like that. So, that’s also how we keep up-to-date, and then, eventually, it shows up in some journal and we don’t read them in the journal. We read them on the arXiv.

Ah, a, lot of people update their arXiv. Math is very well crowd-sourced. So, the math Wikipedia page also is top-notch. If you wanna see something about a graduate topic in mathematics, go to the Wikipedia page. It’ll tell you everything. And it’s well-cited, which is nice. So.

From my experience graduate students are much better… more resourceful (not in talking in person) in terms of using databases. So – I count on my graduate students to help me. They are more fluent, they are more digital native, the way they navigate to get information. For example, I would not tell my students how to look for their literature. I send them to another student of mine with experience… because it is more efficient.

I have a tendency to think that everybody is, more or less, doing the same thing. It’s just social dynamics: how to access information. Some people believe much more systematic, because they want to make sure the idea they have hasn’t been published. That’s very technical, correct? You want to argue that this is original. Um, so if you are doing stuff that a lot of people are working on, you have to be very careful about that. I usually don't do that but I can see a lot of people doing that. Make sure they go through the literature and can argue that why, what they are doing is different. That’s the first thing that referees in top journals will look at. The originality. That’s what top researchers will do. They will just make sure that they can differentiate their work from other work and they need to go through the literature very carefully. But, they are supposed to be experts in their area so they, more or less, know what they do is original. But, if you are outside to the area, it becomes very hard to know if you are contributing something new.

I think new researchers may do it differently. If you know a method that is working why should you change it? That’s the thing. So – if you are doing the same way all the time it’s only by seeing something more efficient that you would change, you need a motivation to change so a new researcher may have been exposed to something more especially with technology… I would assume it is slightly different but we as we discussed, it doesn’t matter, at some point we all get exposed to other researchers ways of doing it.

Yeah, it’s hard to because of the information age, right? When we are looking at older researcher, someone that’s been researching for twenty years, they started their … they did their PhD without the internet or in early internet days. It’s very different. So, trying to separate that … I think a lot of it comes down to the newer faculty remembering being a grad student or remembering having these, like, prohibitive practices of, like, “I don’t subscribe to the Journal of Combinatorics … Like, I don’t … I can’t afford that.” And the University‘s not going to pay for me to get this to my email or to have access to this. I have to go through the library, so you don’t get it updated and, like, yes, you have access to it, but it’s not the same. And the older researchers, too, are usually more impressive, so publishers wanna be, like, “here’s our thing; subscribe to this; have this or that.” And grad students are just, like “well, I dunno. We’re nobody.” One day we’ll be somebody, but not yet.

That's another one. I put the one on the person. It's a choice of each person is different and they might do it differently. I can tell for myself.

I'm not sure. No.

I dunno. I dunno. Um, it’s hard to say. Like I was saying, the big, fancy math paper, especially in my field -- so, I do combinatorics. I do graph theory -- and we are sort of new to the broader community of mathematics. So, the broader community of math is thousands of years and we’re sort of, like, have come along in the last hundred years. So, we’re just, you know, we’re the joke of the community. So, there’s these big fancy journals that people get published in when you are in, like, real analysis or differential equations or anything or partial differential equations … anything like that, you’re getting in these fancy fancy journals. We’re sort of off to the side in our own journals. So, we have our own way of deciding what journals are good and not. Um, but, you’re only really getting in here if you are doing that research that’s that, like, sixty-year-old, impossible problem that the best minds of the twentieth century couldn’t solve. Ahm, and otherwise, you’re, sort of the new thing. So, if you’re that old researcher and you’re doing those fancy fancy topics, you’re looking at older papers, you’re looking at different types of research and you’re looking at it with a different lens. So, I think there’s definitely a difference. What that difference is, I don’t know. Jim Gillian would have great thoughts on this. 
My experience, yes but, as I said, some people may go through the literature with different reasons: one is to find out that what they do is compared against the literature. And then, people are hunting for a small result or just an idea or a computation that is similar to what they have to do. So, there are many ways you can access...many reasons why you may access the literature. But, mathematicians, you know...I...I read books. Mathematicians read books and, actually, we read hard copies of books because, you know we, our knowledge is more stable so we’re gonna study 200 year-old book and it’s still very informative. Some other ones, they discard. It’s obvious.

Graduate students, it depends on their stage of development of their studies. If they are beginners, they may not know always what has to be done, where to find information. We have similar issues with beginning graduate students: Where can I find this information? So they ask us faculty is there a particular source where they can find discussion on a topic and then we report them to the appropriate resource.

I would say that it does – yes mathematicians use are variety of resources, databases and ways to remain current and this does vary by area of research. Yes, there are many resources that target applied mathematicians… There are also meetings of learned societies that target applied mathematicians, but there are quite similar, counterparts, mirror images of both parts that are targeted particular differences. So - I don’t see particular differences or are away of any differences in the sources and resources used to keep up to date between mathematicians and statisticians the way they look, find and use resources. 

I really don’t know. I would have to talk to my colleagues.

So, because of my son, he went travelling, I ended up going on Facebook, so I am on Facebook. And there are several math things on Facebook, but, uh, I don’t, I, so I end up seeing it once and a while and I end up seeing some interesting things, but it’s rare. So I would say there, for example there’s an operations research group on Facebook and there might be an interesting item once a week at the most, um, there’s a, probably several quantum groups on Facebook so, but, it’s really rare. I don’t know why. Yeah, there are these groups on Facebook and uh, so, are there any others? Did I do, on blogs? Not uh, so there are several groups that send you email. Fields, the Fields Institute sends you an email with the upcoming talks and things like that. And uh, there’s several groups in France, a Euro group, so there’s several organizations have a, what would you call it? Because it started years and years ago. It’s just a giant email group. So I guess it’s just an email, I forget, but there’s a special name for it, but I guess it’s just an email that goes out to a large list of people and uh, if you want, suppose you’ve organized a conference then you contact the organizer of this group and they’ll include. So there’s about ten in optimization so I’ve organized some conferences and when I organize a conference I send the listing of the conference to all ten of them and they send it out to all around the world. So I get about ten of these emails, average of about once a month for each of them. And they’ve gotten a bit boring recently. A lot of them are to do with advertisements for grad students, you want grad students, we have jobs. I guess they can’t compete with the, uh, new groups that send out interesting articles, like the arXiv or e-optimization, so they’ve stopped, uh, they do send out conference notices. So I forget what this was called, there was a special name for it. Listserv? Yeah, that’s it, listserv. Yeah, so that was years and years ago that those started… responding to a question And you’re feeling like those are more, I don’t want to say administrative, but you’re not seeing the research in those groups? Used to be, but it’s totally stopped. Yeah, now it’s just conference advertisement sand, um, yeah, they’ve, it’s arXive now and e-optimization that send out the research.

Not at all, ok… Um, ok responding to a comment of other people who use social media well I’m involved in a couple of redacted projects. And so there are people in redacted and like a lot of different departments involved in it and I know some of them do. That would be I think the limit of that.

That’s true, yeah. I do know that some of the first blogs were mathematical blogs, actually. And we should probably pay more attention, I think it’s, yeah, we don’t use them a lot to disseminate or to get information, we don’t. I think that there’s some sub disciplines in mathematics where there are some leaders that are putting a lot of information on blogs for example, that’s the example that comes to mind. And therefore these blogs will be followed a lot. But that’s not as true for my discipline for example. I guess social media another one would be forums would be the stack, uh what is it, maple overflow, math overflow, sorry, uh know some people who are using that, redacted for example, you probably know redacted as well? Uh, he’s a big user of overflow, so there are some people who are using it much more. I’ve not been following that at all. Some people do. I wonder, I don’t know if redacted answered the survey but if he did I wonder if he necessarily would have thought, associated that with a forum. When you lead with the word social media we think of something like Facebook, Linkedin, and stuff like that, right? What’s this one, researcher I, no, was it? There’s one on which I participated a little bit, answered a few questions but then I found that most questions were not relevant, um, what was it? It’s one of a, social network for researchers. ResearchGate? That’s correct, that’s it. I did answer 2 or 3 questions on this… I didn’t find necessarily there’s, well a good use necessarily, of my time to do so.

Yeah, I think so. But, we may have a different case. Even though I’m located in the redacted, we in finance and actuarial science are studying more applied subjects, so we may pay attention more to social media for, you know, what happened in the finance industry. In our community, not at redacted here, but in the general finance research community, some professors are running a project sending a survey among the community asking the people to provide opinions on asset return rates, so I think this is related to the emails and listservs… Yes. Traditional, pure mathematicians they do not, in their life is a different story, but for their research, maybe it’s not that relevant for them to pay attention to the social media. But often the opposite is true. When there was some astonishing research article coming out by some mathematician, the social media reports it widely.

Well, that’s true for me, but there are some forums, mathematicians who have blogs. A famous one is Terry Tao, a Fields medalist at UCLA has an ongoing blog which is very popular. There are some email forums where people post mathematical questions and other people answer them. And some people find those interesting. Maybe I’m just too old, or just don’t have enough time to do those kinds of things, but I think they are being used more and the younger people are more interested in them… Younger people are more comfortable with those kind of forums. You run across them because if you do a Google search, sometimes somebody’s asked the question. I haven’t found them particularly valuable. If you find that somebody’s asked the question, sometimes you find that the people answering it aren’t particularly knowledgeable, they don’t give the right answer. Other times, it does, but I find it very hit and miss as far as I’m concerned. Some people like to follow them and participate in the conversation so to speak. If they enjoy it, that’s fine I guess.

Yup… I don't know. Actually. Well I don't I do much. You know it's also related to age as well. I would think so. So you know I'm over 50 and I'm not so keen about giving all my data to Facebook and I don't know. Although they have a lot of data about me. Or twitter or whatever is out there right. Whereas I think you know younger people are more open to this to start with. And another thing that I would think it doesn't apply to me necessarily I think mathematicians are more introverted people, in general, an extrovert than you know being on social media and stuff like that implies that you're more open to everything else. But this is just speculation. You know. Everything that I am saying is speculative. What I'm saying. And. Maybe but it's also possible that a lot of work that we're doing math, it's really about once understanding of something that is already down on paper or on the computer, right and talking to each other sometime doesn't really help. You know when you write the paper with someone. Right. So like I write this many people what we do right. So I say I need my own time to digest or to understand this or to make progress and we'll meet that date at that time to discuss what progress is, what we have. But then if we discuss too much becomes a waste of time and either I'm on the stage that time is precious so I don't have time to hang out a lot or if I hang on my hang out on things that maybe are different. Like I do gardening.

Yes yes… I think from what I've seen so I've looked at people's blogs and I've looked at their tweets and things and it seems often it's more around the research instead of the I mean it's hard to convey the actual research. So there might well some of the blogs I read tend to be about something you know here's a cool result an undergraduate could understand let me explain to you this cool thing which is interesting but not research intensive. Or things like conference announcements or things like you know sort of professional type things like does the profession placed too much emphasis on X and sort of get a dialogue going. Maybe you should place less emphasis on this or something. So I find that a lot of the social media content tends to be superficial. I don't mean that in a pejorative kind of way but if you're looking for the hottest results or the deepest results that's not where you would find them. Those people publish one or two papers a year so maybe more if they have a bigger group. But it's not the they can't blog every day about a different result, of theirs’s anyway.

That’s a good question. Ah, I got hooked into a mathematician from country… He has a lot of really beautiful Youtube videos. I’ve been following him. And this is a platform (he’s delivering a course). I forgot the name of the platform, so I am following his course. Yeah, it’s name. So, his lectures are great, so I’ve been using Youtube a lot. And a lot of, em...I just mentioned the and I forgot the word, when people write...ah, blogs, Famous mathematicians have blogs. Some of those, but I really got into these videos. Very enjoyable. It’s very unusual to have a mathematician deliver a lot of videos, ah, systematically. I mean, you see lectures, but this is...he takes a topic and gives you, like, five videos on the topic and then another topic. He has hundreds of videos. So, yeah, I find it very interesting. And, there are comments, ah, not very interesting from people that listens sic to the videos. I actually sent him an email. Um, he came to name. I met him. Um, so we talked. Ah, yeah. Some people do get into Twitter. Some of our researchers do research on social media so they are, they have to be engaged. For mathematicians, it’s a bit chaotic. Nothing remains, no systematic way of searching, the debate is all over. Even, you know the comments are, yeah, most people… There’s no decorum, no systematic way of talking about things. But, you know, there are good blogs. Excellent blogs.

Well, I use email, listservs, ResearchGate for example… I get research from ResearchGate daily about data related to my interests. Emails I get from colleagues asking me to comment about their paper, so, social media in my case I do not use to at all, or for mathematics… that’s a personal choice. 

It is certainly true in my case. I don’t know about my colleagues. I think it will be dependent on the area of research and your basic educational background. I would think again that young faculty would be much more likely to go to that area to establish a connection.

Its true in my experience. Time! How could you use these resources to support… If you find information on social media it is not a reference you can use to support your research, it is different from peer referred research publications. It could be a good way to see people discussing different research in lieu of a discussion. I don’t do it because of time and because when I want to search for something I want to know I can use it…

Ah, yes and no. So, I think, ahm, it depends on what consider arXiv. If you consider the arXiv as a social media or, sort of, in here, a blog, then yes, ‘cause that’s all we do. We’re just on the arXiv. But, also, like, like what I said when my friends texted me, when I posted my first publication, they were, like, you’re, oh my god, congratulations, ‘cause … and that was, like, a form of social media. So, like, my other friends have, like, published papers and posted it on Facebook. So, you kind of get -- and it’s usually a link to their arXiv -- but there’s a non-zero amount coming from social media. And it’s mostly people just tooting their own horns, but, like, if you have a good community, and then people you’re interested to see what they’re doing, then you’re getting these notifications on Facebook and things. So, I don’t think it’s, like, a huge part, but it’s definitely up and coming. I think, ‘cause I think people are gonna wanna … are gonna talk a little bit more on Facebook about, like, “I posted this article; you posted that article.” Especially as we move away from the, sort of, journals and into more of an open, um, yeah. Yup.

Wow… so maybe I’m going to the wrong place laughter? responding to a comment that arXiv and MathSci net were second and third, That’s interesting, I just hardly ever use Google Scholar. It pops up, so sometimes, very often when you’re looking for an article Google Scholar will pop up because the link is to Google Scholar. But other than that, yeah, I’m though it is good when I do use it. But it’s sort of a different purpose, not so much that, that you’re getting the information on new articles as much as if you wanna find something about an individual and what kind of papers they’ve done, which I rarely need to do. Maybe when I’m, so sometimes you’re asked to write reference letters for people, then Google Scholar will be probably one of, you know, might do Google Scholar first and then MathSciNet. But, uh, other than that, yeah, I don’t think I ever use Google Scholar.

Well, I have no idea why I started using it laughter. Like, it was a long time ago and I just know how to use it. And I mean I have used Google Scholar, but usually I’d use the Science Citation Index. And the others you’ve mentioned I’ve never used.

I think it’s because Google is sort of, so pervasive in our life, right? We just use Google for so many things. One advantage is it searches across multiple things, so you might have the arXiv paper and the published paper will both appear. That’s very good, obviously there’s a lot of noise also in there and maybe that’s why sometimes I don’t use it. Redacted will come up as mathematician but also something in medicine. So there’s a lot of different people with the same name. Why, why do people prefer it? It’s probably just because it’s, it’s actually also a slightly better search engine, and it’s probably because google is an expert at search engines. It’s a better search engine than the arXiv one, which is not very good. It’s better now than it used to be, uh, when they did that change a year or two ago. But it’s not a very good search engine. MathSciNet search engine is, is also not fantastic, so, it’s probably why people are using Google Scholar I think. It’s just because they don’t have to know how to use a search engine to, don’t have to be so precise in what you right. So Google will, it’s sort of more natural language.

Yeah, this is always kept up to date, almost every day. And it’s convenient to use, and when we do the searching it’s very efficient, it always gives you the most relevant information. So, to be short, it’s efficient. So here, I know arXiv, I think it posts papers more on mathematics and physics, so I imagine more finance and insurance papers are posted to the SSRN… Uh, so I use the Google Scholar much, much more often than I do with the SSRN. For SSRN, maybe I just look around to see whether some people post new papers there. And now Google Scholar has a new function. When there’s some new posted to SSRN, actually Google Scholar will send an alert email to me and let me know the relevant papers have been posted to SSRN. Yeah, so from this point of view I use SSRN as a searching tool is less often recently… Yes to using Google alerts…, keywords or researcher I would like to pay attention to their research.

Yeah, that’s not my order. Like I mentioned, I would put MathSciNet first for searching for things. It’s a very useful tool for searching papers for, with keywords, and stuff like that. And then I would put arXiv as a place to see what people are posting on a regular basis. And then I would do Google Scholar. I use Google Scholar, but I don’t think it’s as effective as MathSciNet. Obviously some people feel differently. And there are other things like ResearchGate and stuff like that. I decided they’re not particularly valuable. LinkedIn is another one, you keep getting requests to friend this person or that person. I always delete them laughter.

Because it gives me access to all others. It's most up to date I don't know another one that is most up to date. It just gets sources for everything everything that that appears on Google Scholar. I think. I don't know but I assume. They could make it a little bit more interesting with respect to, when you choose your preferences, in the search the search engine riding in on a bit more nuanced let's say but it works as it is right. It’s good. Good. On Google scholar you'll find papers that are on arXiv and papers that are on MathSciNet and papers that are on ReserachGate so they give you the source and then if its not open you can just go get it from the library.

They have the site by. Yeah Google Scholar listing citations for papers. But that doesn't mean that these are newer or not. How many people cited that work and those so I don't really believe in those citations much because you know there are groups that cite each other right. They have a convention so you can find the paper with know 100 citations but actually they're all in the same group and they have a convention no matter what you write you have to cite me… Oh yeah yeah. Oh yeah. I have no doubt that they exist. OK. No no. I don't have any proof but I know that types of cabals exist.

So it will give the citations whereas arXiv won’t. Google Scholar is more up-to-date than MathSciNet. MathSciNet is a year out of date. Well I mean the paper might appear. But the paper might appear but of course it's only after it's been published in the journal so it's that the review won't be there till at least a year later. Quite often. So Google scholars up to date you can get the citations linked right away. You can get the paper I guess and get the paper from ArXiv as well… Responding to a comment that Google Scholar is not going to search somewhere else you just click on that link you get your full PDF of the paper.Yeah. And you can search it differently. So I tend to use Google Scholar to search who has cited this. So I don't tend to use Google Scholar much when I want to look for new stuff you know. If I had a new student coming and I wanted to get them going on a new project, get them going on a project, then that would not be the first thing I'd look at but that's a different question.

I’m shocked. I don’t know why.

Well, I suppose I trust, that is, the information is accurate and complete, but I mean, as I said, for me it’s very useful to put the name of the paper and all the citations. It’s unbelievable. Of course, sometimes, it gets too deep. You get 300 citations. But, you know, this is very useful and I find it like that, so I don’t need … arXiv, I find it. I never like it. I mean, ah, they ask you all this... For example, something I didn’t from the beginning, they ask for the source code that you generated your paper. OK, you have to give it to them. I mean, we are talking about the actual files, correct? OK, not the PDF. And they didn’t, didn’t put, I don’t find useful information like how many people downloaded it or a way of writing comments. It’s very hard for me to write, for example, the paper has been published elsewhere. I think I know how to do it but, I mean, there are not very friendly in the sense of, ah, the user interacting with the system. So, in that sense...then SSRN...I do financial mathematics, so they are more into economics, so they are very aggressive. And, there is now the Academia academia.edu which is a bit strange. They are a bit aggressive too. Oh, Researchnet is very useful … Researchgate… that’s a, let’s say, social, which took off. I mean, it’s eclectic. I doubt that it will last because it’s all over. But, I mean, they seem to be doing something that people needed: guarding ? papers and people can ask questions. Of course, the beautiful site… I am using a lot of, um, this stack places https://stackexchange.com/. Math stack, or...where you ask questions. You know it. You just ask a question. They are fantastic. They are very good. It’s a system that’s self-organizes and ranks the best questions. So, we are talking about sophisticated questions in a lot of areas. Once, I never look into this but I think there is a whole system of knowledge bays, systematic, organized. It’s mostly computer science, but, I think it’s in all areas. So, this stack system is maybe part of that but it’s very sophisticated. You know, you ask something about software, commonly, and you have an example and you have a protocol - you just cannot ramble on. Well, they have a protocol: how to address specific answers and questions. So that’s, em, that’s where I go. Well, it’s, um, like a global mind, correct? We eventually, the whole thing, hopefully, will work. Collective mind. So, to do that, there has to be a systematic way...putting questions and answers.

Yes, that makes sense. It applies to me using Google Scholar… because it casts a wider net although you have to use Google Scholar carefully. It is not always very accurate in terms of the arithmetic’s of counting true citations.

I can’t really compare the others... I believe that it is the ease of use of Google Scholar. For example, I can put a full and get some meaningful results. In Google Scholar I don’t have to know the full details of author and something to go through a set of steps to acquire or to know that this is a primary or a secondary author, or does this quote come out of mathematics, engineering… it really provides me with a range of options and as an applied person I like that range of replies. Some people don’t like the lack of focus of this database you have to do a general search and then focus… I haven’t really worried about how Google Scholar works. Google was developed with the help of mathematicians… laughter!

I can explain it based on my experience. I use Google Scholar if I am exploring a new area or a new trend in an area, or if I am unsure… I find Google Scholar very useful in showing me some papers when I am unsure about what I am looking for. When I don’t know who the authors should be...

MathSciNet is obviously, things need to be already published for them to appear. But, yeah, MathSciNet I find, uh, I like the ability to navigate up and down from one paper and try to see what are, who else cited that paper. That sometimes gives me clues. Those are the two main ones I would say, the arXiv and MathSciNet. I mean Google Scholar sometimes, but not very much, that’s not the place I would go naturally, I might end up on it, just, if I do a Google search. Just do a general, generic Google search might lead me to things, but very often it’s just too much or not enough.

So I think, if I know, I mean I can tell you responding to a question where you use Google Scholar vs. MathSciNet vs. arXic}, like a couple maybe two months ago we were with a group of collaborators, we were trying to figure out what has been done, I didn’t even think about looking at Google Scholar, but that’s just me. But I thought of looking at MathSciNet because then I could sort of zoom in to some older papers and go off from there. And then sometimes I have to take certain names and I go on the arXiv and search for these names, now that I have names, because I want to know did they do something more recent. So if I want to know if something more recent that, then I might go on the arXiv. I personally really like MathSciNet as well because once I find a paper I can get the bibTeX entry very quickly, because of the clipboard it is very easy to do it all at the same time, can download the papers directly from them, it’s the authoritative version, it’s not the arXiv version. Some people don’t care but I care, I like, I want the latest version, the one that looks good. Yeah, that’s how I go about it. But I, say maybe I don’t use Google Scholar, but I still Google things, right? I’ll, my natural instinct will just be to Google it to see what, there are papers that will come up as you Google some specific terms. 
Is it, um what are you looking for?, because with MathSciNet you mentioned references and older papers? Right, so let’s say I have an idea, I want to, maybe in Google I’ll even right a sentence. I just feel like this is an engine that can parse, will take some of the relevant words, will eliminate the irrelevant words. And so I can, I remember very recently trying to understand something about spinners and something else so I wrote down what it is, and it comes up, I see a bunch of papers and I try to click on these varies papers and then maybe once I find a papers I’ll try to go, it gives me maybe more title, like because sometimes it gives me something right in the middle of the paper, the title might be very different. And once I have a bit more then maybe I’ll use the information I have, maybe I’ll, maybe I have what I need, or maybe I’ll use some of the information I gleaned from that part of the research and go and put it in MathSciNet or the arXiv or something like that. So in a sense, Google allows me to be imprecise at the cost of having lots of junk that has no importance whatsoever in that research. So it’s not quick in a sense, it can be, it’s not necessarily quick.

Yeah …when you want to understand more, so is this a method that you use when you’re diving into something a little different a little newer than what you’re, well, so one of my PhD students for example, she’s sort of trying to extend work that I did with a collaborator where we did things with dimension six on nearly Kähler manifolds and she’s doing a  dimension seven which is in spirit very similar to these things, but there was a little bit of something I never considered is that when in dimension seven there was something happening particular to the spinner bundle and I did not fully understand that and I wanted to get a better understanding. I mean I knew this was this issue, but now when it came to the nitty gritty of writing something up, something was not just working. Eventually I realized, there’s this saying I really like, I like to tell students about it is, and I’ll just translate it from French, but it is what you can see well you can enunciate clearly and the words to say it arrive easily. And if I realize I’m not able to explain something very clearly it’s because I don’t understand it very clearly. And there was something that was really bugging me, I just could not fully understand it so it forced me to try and explore that a bit more and so I gathered information, a paper, and then there were a few concepts I did not understand so then that’s when I Google things. So maybe Google for keywords, or trying to find examples, maybe somebody else wrote some examples like that. Maybe I’m going to try to see various, yeah, different people have different ways to explain things. So maybe I’ll look at the same thing but multiple times, right? Very often you get course notes this way…These course notes are not always zooming in exactly where you want so it doesn’t always work. That’s why I’m saying it, it could be lots of wasted time, but sometimes I try I will use my own understanding of mathematics and these little hints, and I’ll form my own opinion. That’s the same way I use Wikipedia. I use Wikipedia a lot, not, I don’t consider that a true source of information. Like, I would not rely on this for making, for proof or something like that. But Wikipedia, it just turns out that a lot of people have written a lot of stuff there so it just gives me quick access to lots of things that perhaps I can find in this library, I have here these bookshelves, but, um, it gives me information very quickly and I can use my own knowledge to validate or invalidate something. Because I’ve found things on Wikipedia, I’ve found some true things on Wikipedia.

Yes I search Google Scholar, it seems to bring up a lot of the same thing multiple times. Once you’ve rejected a citation, you don’t want to keep seeing it. With MathSciNet it will bring up a bunch of things and you can sift through them, click on the ones you want to look at and bring them all up simultaneously. Maybe it’s just the way I use it, but I like it better. Zentralblatt is online now too, but, MathSciNet got there first, so, I don’t think it’s used nearly as much.

Yeah, so I like the search tool, um, so there’s keywords, subjects, you can go for the title, you can go for keywords. So when I don’t know the exact title, so if I’m looking for the exact paper, uh, I like it because if it’s not in my .bib. file then I can get the .bib entry and I can click, and actually get the paper usually online. So, because of the way you’ve organized things at the Library I sometimes want to see the article I’m not sure, so I look at the abstract first. So it’s fantastic, I can get the .bib entry if I want, I can look at the abstract, really see if I want to look at the paper and then click and download the paper if I really want the paper. So, to me that’s, there’s just nothing that can be better than that, that I can think of. Of course I guess Google Scholar cheats in a lot of things that are not available elsewhere may be on Google Scholar. I guess it’s illegal, or illegally, that somehow they seem to be there. Yeah. So often books are there, online that are not anywhere else, yeah. But that’s why I go to MathSciNet… Well, not only when you have a citation, no. Looking for keywords and when I’m looking for a subject, and also when I’m looking for something by a person, when I want to see articles by, what has this guy done recently. For things like references, reference letters. But no, I often want to find, uh, what can I find about low rank matrix completion that’s been done recently, or, I think there was an old article pre-60 1960 on this subject and in MathSciNet I can put pre-1960 and do a search just for that, narrows it down, and I get a chance to actually find it. 

Oh, yeah, no, I would say very, very successful when you go to MathSciNet looking for something, In fact it’s rare that, so there quite, actually there a few journals that are not on MathSciNet. So I do run in to that once and a while. I guess the computer Science side, so I have to go somewhere, find it elsewhere. But, uh, yeah, most of the time I’m very, very successful… So, if I don’t find MathSciNet responding to question where else do you go when you need to?, I don’t go to arXiv to search for papers, I only go to arXiv when I know the paper that I’m looking for. So I don’t go to arXive for keywords or things. But then I just go Google search, I never actually go to Google Scholar, rarely, I just do a Google Search for things. Yeah, so I’ll, I’ll put in some keywords, some phrases, and maybe a name or two… Oh yeah, no sometimes works for me. Yeah, nowadays so many even published papers are on a person’s website and, uh, it pops up and I don’t even have to go to MathSciNet or anything if I just want to see the article then it will pop up. Don’t remember the name or something, just approximate. Or, if somebody sent me something, uh, the title of a paper and I’m just, just type in, Google Scholar will go right away to, because so many people like myself, I’ll put on articles on my webpage. So they’ve searched they just find it right away… Yeah when you have a known article, well, no, no, yeah but, I’m sitting here working with somebody and often there’s a question that we don’t understand or is that really a definition of something, maybe we don’t have it correctly, and Google is just really nice for definitions, and things like that. When we find that lemma and know the approximate description of the lemma it will come up. Oh, it’s really amazing, who would have believed this when I started?

Yeah right yeah. Actually. If I wanted to. So what's the what would be. And I just browse through in the area what in the last two or three years what are all the papers under 05E which is my area… Well I think if I were looking for a project to give a student then I'd look at what's what's happened in the last two or three years. It's something that. Yeah. Yeah like a newer kind of a newer kind of thing because you don't set them on something that nobody cares about. Well you know something you might know about but or people you know because the area seems to shift a bit and there is one big conference in the area every year, so you kinda look at it and say what’s new and mathematicians are all about the patters right. So what patterns can you see in all the ones that have been accepted or are they mostly about this kind of thing or are they mostly about this technique… I don’t look ahead running with a popular idea to actually figure out if this is going to be worthwhile, as much as I should probably. I have a theory that you learn something you, you learn a technique or an approach in graduate school and then you sort of then you sort of forever stay in that technique and sometimes it moves you know the whole discipline moves. So things. So my PhD is from ninety four right. So over the time there's been stuff that's come up that's been hot. There is different techniques. So investigating the same sorts of things I would investigate but using this technique or coming at it from this. So but then I've been around long enough to see oh you know everyone's using Shubert polynomials. And then five years later there's hardly any Shubert. And now everyone's using crystals and you know now not chemistry crystals, but something else you know and now everything's different. But then there's a still a few people publishing the Schubert stuff or the crystal stuff. And I wonder are these the people you know in graduate school that's the technique they learn so they're still kind of humming along even if they don't give that to their students. That's my theory. Responding to a comment of search techniques I typically go to 05E which is the classification code. So usually the classification code and the year. Author too hard but I might use keywords. So depending on what I'm looking for yes keywords.

When I am writing out the final, ahm, what are they called … the bib item, then. The actual entry in the bibliography. Then, I’ll go on MathSciNet, pull it up, to have it. Or, if I wanna, like, download a copy for myself that I wanna, like, keep, I’ll, I might, like, find it on archive and just run over to MathSciNet to make sure I’m getting, like, the most up-to-date.  But, arXiv, I think even sometimes links to MathSciNet. Yeah, I think, I think they have a link to it. Or, at least, tells you if it’s posted.

No, never. I think, I can, I can see what people are asking questions… So, we’re moving away from kind of a rigid all-systems, trying to find a way of accessing the information faster and reliable. No, I don't need it. I don’t find that I need it.

I chose it because it is full of mathematics and it is also a longstanding resource. It has legitimacy of being around for some time. It used to be one of the resources of first choice. I would use MathSciNet when I was looking for a particular mathematician, but now I use Google Scholar first and MathSciNet second.

I used to, but I don’t any more.

I don’t use it, not for my research… my students may be using it.

Um, usually it would be to find out who has cited a particular paper, I suppose, so it’s like one way to, you know, like, if I’m aware of a paper on a particular topic that was published ten years ago and you want to find out what the latest things are in that area, that would be the main reason. Um, I suppose once and a while I’ve searched for keywords, but not, I mean I have done that, certainly… Um, probably be more like a new research problem responding to question why use a keyword search rather than following citations, um, keyword searches probably give you a broader selection of things. So probably, sometimes it’s hard, like you get so many and trying to figure out which ones are actually relevant can be a problem, um, but it gives a broader selection of things I suppose.

Sometimes I do. Right because Google Scholar gives you too many results sometimes. So maybe I just want your maths papers and not physics or chemistry papers or whatever. So MathSciNet is more focused on math… Depends searching by keywords, authors, theorems… what I am searching. So sometimes these are not there sometimes more often would be by keywords.

So, I’m really interested to see what other people are saying. Let me tell you what I honestly do. What I honestly do is I just stick it in Google. I just go straight to Google. I don’t go to anywhere like this. I just go into Google and I’m, like, I need to find this thing about this and it probably had this author on it. And, see what comes up. More often than not, I get awesome resources. I find, you know, an illegal PDF of the book that I was looking for, I find, you know, or a book that’s similar to what I was looking for. You find eight different articles and then those will usually link you somewhere else. Um, I just go straight to Google. And, I don’t know what other people do. So, I’m kind of hoping that I’m not the only … if you were my supervisor, and they asked me, I’d be, like, absolutely, just go to the arXiv and search keywords. I don’t do that.

No, I mean, no I always look for the name of the paper, um, maybe an author, but, usually a specific information … name of a paper. Because I want to know, you know, if people have been  working on that. That’s the main use, I make. I have an idea, because it’s based on a paper, so I put that paper, I say, who work on that? And that gives you a, essentially everything you

It depends on the problem I have and the information I am seeking. 

All! I can take a whole statement about a theorem for example prime numbers and it gives me a number of papers… It give me so many options.

I search by theme when I don’t know who the authors are. If I know the authors, sometimes I go on the web site, when I want to know, when I have something specific… I use often the reference list at the end of publications to guide me further with my research. So – I am often using publications’ reference lists to guide me, the specific publication number, of I may go straight to the library catalogue…

Yes, yes, yes – sometimes I do! I was working on a computation aspect of a theory and a particular algorithm, one of the first algorithms for approximation, looking for more concreate information of where a solution of these systems can be found. I tried at that time to retrieve as many relevant papers that dealt with this algorithm in the context of this problem… In fact, I even had a discussion with a director of an institute of computation and he himself who is in this field of endeavor would not have a clue about how to proceed with getting these resources and he looked around and he told me “that’s true” we don’t have the resources to mine for information on that particular aspect of computation, knowledge and analysis, but that was more than a decade ago… things have improved since

That certainly is the case. You’re looking for something and it responds and you’re going to work with that and you are going to later on… take part of the deeper text into another Google search and try to refine it to see what else has been published, if the theorem has been extended.

No, sometimes I do it in, just do it in Google. So MathSciNet is a double click process. I go to MathSciNet and then search the keyword, and sometimes I can just type it in the top bar. So, depends how successful I think I’m going to be just typing it in the bar.

No. I mean I know there’s SPIRES that people can go to, typically in physics. But I don’t see the real difference between that and arXiv. Seems to me to be the same things that are appearing in both. Maybe it is and maybe the search engine is easier. Is it, is it the same thing?... I know arXiv has a physics section… And I see Web of Science, I’m surprised that people use it as a way to search things. I found it pretty useless so far... Well I didn’t really search but it’s just an extra laying of things. I use it, I think this is Web of Science where you can sign up for these alerts, so I have these alerts I have to renew once a year on papers. Those are the ones, part of the thing I find painful with set alarms is that, uh, the alarms for example there I have, I’ve set up for every paper I’ve published and so it tells me what people citing my papers, which I find useful, um, but, they are, you have to renew them every year. And so every year there’s a little bit of maintenance. And I think the Google Scholar alerts I did once, I set a little bit but, uh. But I’ve not used any other database. I mean, I guess there’s the database at the library when you search for books, right? The catalogue? Sure. It’s not always easy. No looking for a specific title, not necessarily, I like, around certain, I mean I needed to understand something recently about, you know about this big thing I built in redacted, right? Now it’s turned… I don’t know, did you see it? No Ok, well it’s not there anymore. Um, but maybe you saw a picture? I did, yeah. And we had to undo it and I have to, it will be rebuilt, and I have to understand some of the physics around it and eventually, some people, so I searched in the library for the appropriate text book and I went to the library and searched around and trying to open and look at books and stuff. That’s one example. But I have, yeah, I will sort of zoom in to maybe one title I know and then I would go in the book shelf, and it tells me where to go in the bookshelf, and I go around it in the bookshelves. Or same thing, last week, these books there. This one was on the bibliography on one paper so I wrote down in the search engine and I wrote down the title and it came up as one of the choices and I went and picked it up but there were other books around it that I picked up as well. But when I tried to search for something very, like more broader, I don’t know exactly which books, then it might not work at all, right? Or sometimes, just for fun, I though, ok, maybe I should read the Lord of the Rings. I just find finding the Lord of the Rings on the books, on the, is very difficult. Because there are so many other books talk about the Lord of the Rings and Tolkien. So if I write the Lord of the Rings and Tolkien like a gazillion books, like I just want the Lord of the Rings. This is not for my research obviously. As a father I thought maybe it’s time for me to re-pick up the Lord of the Rings, so that was just an example of something, as a search, I mean I have the same problem sometimes when I do search some mathematical concepts is, it might not be mathematical at all, I mean I needed to prepare for a class and I needed something about astronomy and was having difficulty finding one. But sometimes I do find what I need nonetheless, so. Now there’s one database that does not exist and I know that, I think maybe I discussed this with you or your predecessor about this. I was very surprised that you can tell me what I borrowed five years ago… And I understand the privacy issues and all these things. But, yeah, this is data that you know, can be useful as a researcher. Like, oh yeah I remember I borrowed something about this, what did I borrow? This is just what I remember, I borrowed this, but I cannot even search through my own. I don’t know what is the correct answer for this. Maybe having a digest that one can download every year or something like that. For your convenience you can download this digest as we renew every period of time

Uh, of course the university Library. Because Google Scholar usually give us different versions of the paper, and some might be just the preliminary version so I always try to look at where I can download the journal version. Yeah, so once I find a version on the Google Scholar and my judgement that it has been published, I also go to download that journal version because it will be more accurate.

I tried ResearchGate at one point, and I decided it was intrusive. It kept wanting to know, is this your paper, is that your paper, and anyway, I stopped using. And I also stopped responding to requests from other people. I haven’t found it particularly useful. Sometimes people have posted their papers there where they are not so readily available in other places, but I haven’t really found that you can’t get something if it’s out there. I like MathSciNet because the information’s very reliable. If you find it, people’s reviews tend to be reasonably accurate about stating what’s in the paper. If you search for keywords, they’ve used the important words in the paper in the review so you can find them. And the paper is usually available. Google Scholar, I don’t find it quite as effective.

It depends how specific things are, yes and no. The more specific you are, if you know what you’re looking for, sometimes you believe there’s a paper out there, you can usually find it. But then you often have some idea of who the authors were, things like that. If you’re just looking for an answer to a question in a specific topic, you may or may not be successful. I try a number of different avenues… Ok, well I think we’ve talked about them, MathSciNet, Google Scholar, ordinary Google, you know ordinary Google will often bring up Wikipedia, something like that. Wikipedia doesn’t usually have detailed information, but it often has references, so if you find a topic you’re looking for on Wikipedia, usually there’s a citation that you can look up. 

I use INPEC. Sometimes not too often. Sometimes when I'm looking more for physics stuff.

I don't use Web of Science much anymore. I used to. Well you of when it was paper whatever it was called science citation. As a graduate I was trying before I came here I was trying to figure out how I discovered this. And I think it was a librarian at UW when I was a graduate student probably. I think I think it was the librarian who helped me out anyway and that’s how I found out about it.

No. Wikipedia whenever, um, yeah, that’s it. Wikipedia’s really good for teaching. Or, um, I’m working on a project right now where the actual definition of what we are studying is ambiguous, so we’ve been back and forth to Wikipedia to, like, dig through where this definition came from and how it applies in our case. So, that’s been a lot of … that I spent more time in these databases, looking for these, this particular definition. Um, and that’s...the arXiv wasn’t helpful. Google was a little helpful. Um, but it’s important when you are Googling, you need to know who’s important. So, there is something with that, like, I’m not just gonna go to Google and type in .. you know, tell me about these six graphs and then, oh, this is a Powerpoint presentation from, you know, Mr. Smith out in Albuquerque. You’re like, oh, it’s, you know, like Robinson, Seymour, Thomas. This is important. So, you kind of have to know. And that’s ... I think mathematicians are, like, “well if you don’t know, you don’t deserve to be able to do this research.” It’s a little … Mathematicians are very snotty in a way that I haven’t seen other academics. They’re very, like, “Oh, what do you mean you didn’t read this paper? Oh well.” It’s weird. It’s weird.

I tap on Researchgate, SSRN (we use this in economics and finance), um … As I said, for the last five or six years, almost impossible I don’t find anything. So, I always find what I want, But, in the past, that used to be a problem. And then you go to interlibrary loan. But, now I am sure that interlibrary loan went down. I haven’t used it for years. That’s my point, I mean, if I need something, I can find it. So, otherwise, I would be telling you I need this, I need that. Yes, it’s working in that sense. Of course, it may be in a state of flux and it can break. But, at the moment, yes, I will say it’s quite a ... working.

I use ResearchGate – they are quite aggressive being present – in your face, but this has merit because many mathematicians are now on ResearchGate… It is becoming one of the preferred resources.

None.  

So I started also not, probably in 19??, not sure when, probably pre-1990, yeah and I can tell the year if you really need to know, because there was a journal, there was an article I published in a journal that started a, a .bib file for it, and that, uh, the editor for that journal was very eccentric and he wanted the bibliography in a very special way. So since I started it, for ever after, I kept building on this bibliography and I built it, perhaps the wrong way. But anyway, I got about 20 .bib files and, uh, probably several hundred thousand .bib entries and so I give all my students access so I have a folder on drop box with all of these .bib files and I give all my students access to this folder and I tell them how to, uh, so what I do with MiKTeX is I put this folder in my path so that MiKTeX automatically finds it and I give all my students access to it so whenever, if they can’t find an entry I tell them to put it into a separate file. And then I’m, if I can’t find it, I’ll add it, but usually it’s somewhere in there and I’ll just rename their alias for it. So yeah, so I, I’ve made up, I guess I made up my own because I’ve been doing it for so long. And so all of my students, I force them, cause I don’t want to use theirs laughter, so I force them to do it this way. And actually, my colleagues, as many as I can twist their arm, do it as well, because it’s so big, so they don’t have to re-, but otherwise, how do I get my .bib entries? I go to MathSciNet and if I’m missing one I find it in MathSciNet and then I cut and paste and add it in to my, ah, one of my .bib files. And they’re by subject, and they’re on the web so that uh, if anybody wanted to down load it, they’re accessible in several different ways, as a .jsp file or just ordinary .bib files. Yeah, so I don’t use Endnote and, who knows, it’s probably better than what I have but it’s really hard to keep relearning new things all the time. I’m sure it’s better but, so one of the things that I find, one of the big problems the last couple of years is, for example, our financials, you know every time we go to a conference we have to hand in our expenses, right? So as you learn how to do this, they change, they update the system, and you have to relearn it. And you lose hours, you know, so this is why I try to avoid learning a new system all the time, because I know they’re just going to update it. So that, I think that’s one of the big problems with all these things with things like Mendeley, which is great because I get Mendeley, they send me emails and it’s really hard to avoid it because they put one of your papers here, or one of your colleagues has suggested this paper and very often that paper is really interesting and I often download it, so I don’t ignore it, but I don’t use it like they want me too. It’s just a brand new system that I’m going to have to learn, it’s too many of them. Springer has one, they send me an email as well, or is Mendeley Springer? I forget. Oh, Springer is different... so Springer is different, Springer keeps sending me emails as well, trying to get me to use their system.

Ah, ok, well I guess it depends what you mean by that. So I use LaTex to write papers and there’s something called BibTex, like you can enter all your papers in there which you can then use to like cite in your paper and just links and automatically loads everything so I use that. Is that what you mean? Yeah, so I use that. Haven’t even heard of them …broader types of software, Mendeley, Endnote, etc. laughter. So, what do they do? responding to a comment that certain databases and software track and cite papers Ok, I’ve never done that… Ok, that could be useful laughter. Well, I mean, I only use it for, like, when you know you’re writing papers commenting on BibTeX and you want to cite a paper then you know, you’ve got some keyword that references what you’ve entered in to BibTeX, that’s all I use it for. Um, and it works very well, but it’s sometimes a pain entering all this information. Well I’ve never thought of trying to do that, so. software to store, track and cite papers in one place Um, well I know it’s very convenient LateX… for a lot of math, um, but most of the journals have LaTex templates, so it’s just really convenient. And it’s what I know.

Yeah, I think, I mean you know you heard me before, I’d say, I mean, when you say mathematicians we lean towards specialized tools like BibTeX. But that’s not citation management system, to some extent, well it is it is very low key, it’s better than, but even some of my, when you’re saying this, I’d say this 20% or 17% might be that a lot of people aren’t even using that. I don’t know what percentage changes when… Perhaps it has to do with the pace? And the amount of papers people write in a year, being in mathematics you can write two papers a year and be very successful so you don’t need to necessarily to have, now once you play with this, it is very, it’s hard to go back. But, uh, some people will just have a bibTex file and will search in it for their things, their papers. What I would say, that anyone, I mean, I use JabRef and I would have answered yes. I hope this is not, you’re not suggesting this would not be one of them.

Uh, I think it might be even low. I personally don’t use. I’ve tried it a few times, but I don’t feel that it’s convenient... The 18, yeah, it could be 10, I don’ know. But my students they all use this. And actually I guess the reason could be because my student is more focused which means they can, because most of the papers they would want to read carefully actually are very much on a relevant topic. But for me, because I’m working on different topics, it’s very difficult for me to organize them on some unified system. I know there are some different citation management software. I’ve tried a few. I forgot their names exactly, but I feel they’re not useful for me, so I give up… The most common deliverable for us is papers, you know, publish a paper, and for the published paper the reference usually runs from ten to maybe forty, I think forty might be the most I believe, so, it seems to me the work to reorganize the references for every paper is minimum, is quite minimum compared to the total time I spend on writing a paper. So that’s why I do not think this really saves a substantial time for me if I use any citation management software. And sometimes it’s difficult to adjust the format with a software while different journals often require different reference formats for submission. So sometimes it’s really inconvenient to adjust the format to consist to a target journal. This’s the main reason I didn’t use it. 

Yes, all my students use citation management systems. Yeah, all of my students use that actually…
Uh, I think BibTeX might be the most popular one.   

Yes, so some people keep a big bibliography, like say with LaTeX you can use BibTeX. I find that when you’re writing papers that you want to incorporate the references directly into the paper. I don’t like having auxiliary files, and I don’t like including extraneous information like citations that aren’t going to get used. So, my go to method is to grab the citations from some related paper that I’ve written in the recent past and start with that and edit them, add and subtract. If you want to get the information for a paper quickly, MathSciNet is quite good at that because you can look it up and then you can actually get the BibTeX style citation from them and just copy and paste the information, and then just edit it to your particular needs. So I don’t keep a big bibliography, I did for a while try it, but I just found that it got kind of unwieldly, and that it wasn’t any quicker than finding it in another way. If I remembered it was cited in some other paper, I could quickly go there and grab it, and if that wasn’t the case, I could quickly go to MathSciNet and grab it. I find that’s good enough and I don’t keep a database myself.

No. No I don't. I don’t even know what that is. Oh wait, so like you have it in on your computer. I see what you are saying. No I don't... But this is because I not organized either. I keep saying I'll do BIBTEX at some point but I don't… No no no no no no. It depends right. Like, I wrote a book and had hundreds of citations. I don't know I would say an average let's say 15 to 20. Twenty five doesn't go more than that. I don’t like exhaustive stuff. Just what you need there… Also you know it's sometimes I do stuff like see that paper and the references with them. If it's really big subject. Yeah just before they see that book and see the bibliography for the book.

No. No. I don't even use BIBTEX. Yeah yeah. Yep yep I write them by hand every time. Or you know if you publish a paper in the area then you go back to the previous paper and you've copy paste. So I find BIBTEX annoying just because you write another paper sometimes they don't want you to submit the BIB file - they want it all in the single file and so on. So anyway that's a side issue…. 20 or 30 citations per paper. Talking about graduate students, their use of these systems… I don’t really talk about it them. I mean if I find a paper I want it then I download the paper and put it in a directory on my computer. And then if I wanted to go back to that or I remember or I just Google it again you know I remember so-and-so had this paper from this journal or that year. keeping papers downloaded On the computer. Responding to a question do you read them that way? If I'm serious about it I will print it out. If I really want to read it… So I tend to save according to the topic. So if I'm doing something on chromatic symmetric functions. So I have a directory called research and then chromatic. And then within chromatic if I have different sub topics so it might be the co-author. Or it might be time of year - you know summer 2019 and then I save the papers by author name Okada One or Okada Two or Okado three or whatever… backups? Just on the laptop. OK well then I'd backup the laptop regularly. But if there's something I'm really afraid I might lose I might e-mail it to myself. But everything's available. You just go back to ArXiv and you find it. I've a reasonably good memory so usually I can remember who was the author and then the keywords of the title to find things. OK and then of course you can also search on the computer sometimes. I mean you search the directory.

Mathematicians are ridiculous. They, when they format their citations … everyone has their own way of doing it and you just copy your supervisor’s way of doing it. Yeah. It’s the most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard. It’s not MLA. It’s not APA. It’s not anything reasonable. It’s whatever you want. So, I, I have also come up with my tips, like, my style for how I do my citations. And, that I don’t think is good. So, when I do it, like I emphasize, um, usually I emphasize, like, certain things and then I have commas and some people put periods and some people put semicolons. And, I also put my date in brackets but some people don’t. Um, and I always bold my volume and some people italicize, like, it’s just, it’s ridiculous. It’s a mess. It’s a mess. But, it’s also nice because no one’s complaining about it because as long as I can re … look, go to, you know,  number 12, type that into whatever I want, which is probably Google, and have it -- the actual article -- pop up, we’re happy. Um, it’s probably .. don’t ever tell a librarian, ‘cause I feel, like, they would be very angry.

Yes, which is I guess the point of this research, right, trying to be more helpful to the community. Yeah, if you write a paper in mathematics you use LaTeX, right, if you use LaTeX, you need BibTeX, this is the way you need to connect the information, so any of your tools are not compatible with BibTex, are not producing a BibTeX file, they’re useless. That is, I mean, they could be very pretty, much prettier than JabRef. I, there’s a lot of things I hate, totally hate about JabRef. The one thing I really like is it opens a BibTeX file and saves information to that BibTeX file. It makes the BibTeX file alive in a sense that I can search, I can sort, I can do things in it. I can extract information very easily. But it’s totally ugly, it doesn’t work well, there’s a lot of things, I mean, it’s a multiplatform thing so it’s a Java environment, and so it means that all the usefulness that I’ve come to love, I don’t know if you use Mac?...but there’s a lot of things in Mac that, like the drag and drop and all these things and the way the menus are done that do not work because this is a Java application that was built for another platform. That is the other great thing is that I’ve used it on all three platforms, on Unix, on Mac and on Windows. Um, but that’s, uh, I’d say there are other things that exist, Papers, Mendeley. I’ve seen people use that. But any of those things must be producing or having a BibTeX file, otherwise it just doesn’t work. Because the papers we produce are written in LaTeX, we need a .bbl file you need to do a BibTeX on this to produce a .bbl file and then you’re good. When you upload it to the arXiv then you need to give your .bbl file or have your bibliography as part of your paper. So I think the, sort of the Library, things like Endnote, does Endnote, is Endnote one of the big ones, right?... I don’t know responding to Endnote’s a big one, and RefWorks. Now they do, they do work with, they will produce a BibTeX file. They do work with LaTeX. Do they work well? Is another question. So the other reason why, for example, I chose JabRef, was a time in my life when I had no money, no grant, nothing like that, and I needed to choose something that would last me for a long time. I didn’t know what type of computers I would have in the future, that’s why I chose this. Because at my house I had a laptop, which was a Windows laptop, and at the office, what was supplied was a Linux system so I could use both, at home and at work I could use this. Um, it was free, no question of spending money and resources, and I was not dependent on the Library. That’s why I sort of liked it, now, it has a lot of drawbacks, I don’t know that necessarily I would have entered this the same way. I don’t know what I would do if I was a grad student here at redacted and having the ability to do something else and like use software from the Library, would I necessarily go to another one? There’s another one that my wife has been using which is, well it’s sort of a little application, um, can you name other systems?... The one my wife used worked well  Mendeley… with Word I think. But I played with it a little bit, it doesn’t work for us. Just wanted to get a sense a little bit what this was, it was not, not as strong as what I’m using at all in terms of… I think Papers is Mendeley, Papers was the, a branching out, there was, it used to be the same thing, right? That’s what she uses Zotero. That’s the one, it’s useless for me. Because I guess, lots of reasons, like I look at it a little bit and there was, sort of, not as strong as what I’m using and not produce, not work as well with BibTeX. Uh, Papers and Mendeley, are they not the same thing? Or did it branch out from the same project? Something like that? Yeah Mendeley and Papers, they may have a history together that I don’t know about.

Yeah, that’s why for me, when I researched this many years ago, they were the same thing. It was Papers by Mendeley. Yeah, I mean, if someone was starting today, or, let’s say it this way. If I could, if the system that the Library had could just take my BibTeX file that already exists, that are already referencing on my hard drive to lots of different papers, right, because, but, the position is relative, right, so they are framed to the position. If something could be imported where everything where everything would be and it could be all in the cloud and I could still access those papers, and those are my papers on which I’ve marked things, right, so, so I want to be able to save them with the new markings I’ve done when I’ve underlined certain parts of the paper and things like that. Then I would probably switch to the better, if it was a better interface, then yeah, I’d be happy to switch to a better interface. Now, so why do people not use these things? They’ve not been trained very often. Or they’ve started a certain way and then there’s some inertia right, so, I think when I did that little presentation last summer that redacted didn’t immediately jump in to it, but eventually he did. And I do hope, I have to check if the grad students are doing it now, but, uh. But yeah, I, eventually it becomes very useful to have access to such things and the fact that one fifth are using, when you say, I would say they use traditional, when I answered that question I might have considered I’m part of that one fifth because to me JabRef is as traditional as the other ones in that sense. Maybe not the ones supported by the library, it’s uh, it’s the same level in a sense… But even though, I would say many of my colleagues don’t even have BibTeX, don’t even use BibTeX. That is, they will just copy and paste all of the references at the bottom of their, you’ve probably never used LaTeX? So at the bottom of your LaTeX, you, one thing you can do is you can just have your bibliography there. And so they would probably have a TeX file, like they would probably look at their previous paper, copy the papers that they want, put them in that one, then put new papers. Like, it’s very time consuming and very stupid way of doing it. That’s the way it would be at the time of TeX. Um, so if you have older professors that were at the time of TeX that’s probably how they did it, the newer ones were probably trained by the professors that were using TeX so even though they are in a LaTeX world where they can use BibTeX, they still use TeX mentality… And I think, it’s, I think the reason, I gave the little thing last time, but I think this is one part where we could train, we could spend more time training students and being good at this. And I think that’s a way where, uh, where the Library can really support the mathematics program. But, being mindful that it needs to be BibTeX compatible. If it’s not easy to import BibTeX things and have your BibTeX file then it’s not useful.

BibTex is a good one ‘cause it basically, it just … I don’t use it; I do all of my citations manually. Um, but basically you can keep a list of the citations you want and then just say, whatever you’ve cited, your document will just go and pull them out and stick it in appropriately so you don't have to mess with it. So, you can just keep this, like, running-total of hundreds of articles that you've ever used in your research and, just as you cite them, they appear, which is fine, but um, so how - sorry I’m reading ahead, how and when are these packages used? Um, yeah, BibTex is the only one I’ve used, um. Another thing that’s nice is as your typing your BibTex document, you finish your sentence, you just go cite and then you, it links. So, it all appears, it appears in order. The only thing is that, when you are doing it manually ... so you're not, you don’t have the separate bib file, you’re doing it in the document, you have to adjust it alphabetically yourself. And if you make a mistake, a mistake, it’s just stuck there. For instance, in my master’s thesis (reference number 9), um, ‘cause I had to go reference it a little while ago, actually just says the author comma “CANNOT FIND THIS REFERENCE. ASK ANTHONY.” In all caps. And that’s available in the library. Everyone to see. Yeah, Yeah, so… Laughter.

The first thought that comes to mind is we are required to put some key numbers, when we write a paper, at the bottom of the abstract. These are codes that the American Mathematical Society has created to identify your topics. So, I guess what you are saying is I look for some codes to see where these topics have come up. Is that what you are asking? I mean when referring to tools like Refworks, zotero, mendeley, etc. - saving citations, etc., we use a system that is very easy to type a citation. I know, I know what you mean. I have heard conversations in the, em, the email. Researchers save by using this database for keeping track of citations. I don’t find it … I have hundreds. You know, I just have a dozen, so I type them in. Bibtex. That  what we use. But, I mean, I’m not dealing with a long list where I have to search. Some people, other people, may have to keep track of … a lot of. I don’t have to, but if I have, yes, you are right, I would be using it too. So, not in my case.

I don’t use them frankly. Why don’t I use them? I think maybe I’m not educated enough about what they can do for me… I’m not educated enough. 

No idea, I have never used them.

BibTex yes, JabRef no, I think there is a lot of room for educating mathematicians about these tools and how they can be helpful. If we have our information, our resources, and our ways of finding the resources, we may tend to be a little lazy educating ourselves about these resources or maybe they are not communicated well enough to us. 

Through a research project a collaborator started to use Zotero. This person said we should use it for our research project so we started… I never came to use it myself. Why I don’t use it, it is time. I would need to be convinced that it would contribute to my work… It’s not finding the time to… Maybe I can be shown how it can be used and I will start using it.

Well, myself, uh, if you take a look at my papers, I rarely publish a solitary paper. And, uh, and I look at mathematics as very competitive, my body still could do it in sports, a lot of different sports and I kind of look at math as a sport and I really enjoy working with people. In a way it’s competitive because you want to get the results out early and get the big famous results, but, uh, I take it more as, uh, working with people and, uh, yeah, I really enjoy working with people. So I do not take it as being solitary at all. But it is solitary as well, I get some of my best results came while I was in the shower by myself, so it was solitary, but, uh, so yeah, you have to sit there and think and get some time to think for yourself, but, no, I’m not. But I know a lot of people are, a lot of people want to work on their own and just do a lot of work on their own, and they’re very competitive, but, uh, I think I’m just the opposite. I really always work with my graduate students like I do with colleagues and I don’t mind how many names are on a paper. My name is redacted so all my papers have me near the end. I don’t insist on my name being first, even though I was, sometimes I contributed more than others, that’s not what I try to do when I’m working.

I don’t agree with it. I can see, it could vary a lot depending on discipline, like in applied math and doing like, a lot of what I do is redacted, um, so it’s certainly not isolating, like I work with a lot of different people, from different countries, so, for me, I would not agree with that… Ah, yes, although it being collegial and working in groups, I guess my experience tend to be small groups, so it’s not like, so I mentioned a while ago these sort of redacted projects I’m involved in now, and so one of them is quite large, so like one big grant with like twenty co-investigators so that one’s very large, so I wouldn’t call that a mathematics project. So, for me, that’s very unusual, so most of it is working with one or two other people, so not being part of, so I know in some disciplines these sort of big groups, maybe big multidisciplinary groups working on something, um, so that is, I think not common in mathematics. 

Oh, yeah responding to collaboration… and then responding to a comment that do you think that collaborating with others on projects, does that maybe change how you might go about seeking information? Keeping up to date? Does that have any impact? I don’t think so, other than of course the other people involved in this project will say, hey look at this paper that’s relevant to what we’re doing.

Is it a solitary pursuit? I’m not sure. I can certainly say that when I was doing my PhD I felt this was, it was frustrating at times for sure, right, even now I find it very frustrating. You sort of go at the frontier of your ignorance and you’re trying to push these boundaries and so you are faced with being ignorant and not understanding what to do and therefore it’s not always, you’re not in your comfort zone, for sure, right. Um, when you’re a grad student you have, you’re being asked to produce an original result, and that can be very difficult. But once someone told me this is the last time you’ll have to work alone. And I would say that’s true. That’s the only paper I ever wrote alone, was the one resulting from my PhD thesis. Everything else I’ve done with other people and that’s the way I like it. Many people have, on the other hand, preferred to work alone and just keep doing things so. I don’t know what is the best characterization of mathematics. I’m not sure it is a solitary pursuit. Now, you need time alone. That is, even if I work with lots of people, there will be time when I want to be alone, I want to be able to have my own time to process the information, process the ideas on my own. Even when you’re with collaborators you have some things and sometimes you’re like yeah I need to think about this, right, I want my own time to do my own mistakes and try to really, yeah, ok. So, it’s frustrating, I’m not sure if it’s a solitary pursuit though solitary time is very useful. It’s competitive, quite competitive. Maybe not in the sense of, uh, if you want to survive in today’s world as a mathematician, if you want to be on the job market, then I’d say right now, compared to 10, 15 years ago it’s, the quality of the people that are available is totally incredible. They’ve written a lot, they’ve, they’ve done much more than they used to do. Many of us, my age and older, would have been hired, or would have finished their PhD with no papers, went to their postdoc and wrote papers, a couple papers, and then another postdoc… But I think that now even getting a postdoc if you have no papers is difficult. So it is much more competitive than it used to be. Now, once you’re in the field, once you’re like, you, I don’t feel that competition anymore, right, so, I’d say it’s more collaborative. At the stage I am at, you’re curious about what other people will do, you have your own things where people are not, it’s not cutthroat, right, people will say oh you’re working on this? Then I’d step away, you don’t work on it. But, yeah, I mean there are obviously competitive processes, right, we are applying for grants and, there needs to have, we’re competing, not everyone get the grant. Um, but I would say it’s not, it’s not, yeah, I don’t feel I’m in competition against anyone else though. As grad students maybe that’s what people did… And even when I was a postdoc and looking for a job, and think that’s it, this is the year we will know who if really wants to do mathematics. And not everyone that was, in, when in redacted I got this job here, so I’ll say redacted that academic year, uh, there was other people who were postdocs at the same time I was, at the same institution, and not everyone is in mathematics today.

Right any impact on information seeking, staying up to date?, so, that is what I was saying a bit earlier, when you are, um, yeah laughter, yeah it does, right. So all these, I was saying postdocs and grad students reading the arXiv much more, because they are in a position where they are much more vulnerable and they’re trying to equip themselves to be less vulnerable, um, because they are, there’s that competitive nature. They want to be the expert on something. When you’re already the expert, maybe you don’t feel the need to do that as much, um. That solitary pursuit now maybe makes more sense. I mean, maybe that’s what I was talking about, the undergrad students, and the grad students, yeah, so, yes maybe it’s more a solitary pursuit, I’m going back to your solitary pursuit, uh, it’s more solitary then say in a physics lab or something like that. Because, indeed that’s true, my students they like, maybe they’ll chat with other people and there’s that community environment, but they have to do their own math, right, and. We’ve not been good, if it’s possible at all, to implement some of the STEM, even math is part of STEM but anyway, some of the other disciplines in STEM, their model, which would be good to do, right, so. And partly is that there’s the level of difficulty. I cannot take a first year student and, or like a third year undergrad student that just is learning differential geometry and they cannot read my paper, not immediately at least. They have a lot to do before they can read what I wrote. That means, for example, they cannot even proofread. They cannot, I mean they can check for the English, but apart from that they have no clue what they’re reading, right, yeah, they cannot, as to whether or not they can decipher is this sentence true or not, they have no clue. So that’s one difficulty. So maybe that’s why, I’m going to contradict myself, maybe that’s why it’s solitary. It can be solitary but it can also be collaborative as well. But yeah, in terms of finding information, I think all of this has an effect and, and, uh, frustrating, you’re asking about frustrating, does this affect the ability it search information. Well, why is it frustrating? Very often, because you’re banging your head against something you don’t understand. When you try to find information, if you don’t know what it is you don’t understand, it’s very difficult. That’s the problem I was having with some of the students looking for it, is that if I read, I have a certain level of knowledge, if I read the introduction of a paper about monopoles for example, then I’ll be able to detect, oh yeah, these are the right kind of monopoles, these are the monopoles I want and not the cyber within monopoles, which is something entirely different or some other type of monopole, uh, economic monopoles, whatever. I know the right type of monopoles and I’ll be able to classify the paper according to various criterion I have, but if they’re not, students are not like, it’s just too early. Very often they have no clue, even if they try to read the introduction it’s just gibberish for them. So, it’s difficult to find the information, you have to acquire a lot of knowledge before you can search.

Yeah, I think whether it’s true or not really depends on which area in mathematics, it matters I think. This statement, I think, may be truer, for pure mathematics. But for applied mathematics I think nowadays collaboration is so common. Most papers are authored by more than one co-author. So this is just my personal feeling, I didn’t do any survey, you know. So, particularly for research in our redacted, it is very, very common to have collaboration. So frustrating, yes. For research in mathematics, so, when we’re designing a methodology we do the proof and, you know, if one step has a hurdle, we may eventually waste all the time and have to give up the whole thing. Sometimes one may try for a long time, but just cannot overcome, you know, that technical hurdle. So sometimes, yes, it is frustrating, but I think this is also the charm of the research I believe, the uncertainty. If everything is certain it maybe become less interesting. Competitive, I think so. There might be different meanings of the word competitive here. So, on the one hand, competitive means, you know, many people working on the same topic so you have to be quick, have to be done it in a more elegant way. on the other hand, people may work on different topics but, you know, there are still competition among them, because people compute for funding, research opportunity, and opportunity for some academic reputation. I think there’s always competition there. But this is true not just for mathematics, but also for every other areas.

Ok, so, it’s not solitary. I think that most mathematicians, if they figured stuff out and just put it in a notebook and kept it on their shelves, they wouldn’t feel very compelled to continue. We like to share our ideas. If we do something that we think is interesting and exciting, we want other people to hear about it, we want them to think it’s interesting and exciting. So you go to conferences and you give talks to advertise your results and get other people interested. We collaborate with one another as I said, because it’s more fun to do it that way. It can be more effective since two minds are better than one. Large groups can get unwieldly, but 2 or 3 people can cooperate, so, I don’t think it’s solitary. We like to talk about our work. We like to listen to other people talking about their work. We like to discuss problems with one another, and bandy ideas about. That’s often how collaboration gets started. It’s how I train my students and postdocs, we talk about mathematics and then they go off and they do it. Can it be frustrating? Absolutely, that’s another thing I tell my students: you need a high tolerance for frustration. Problems are not easy. It’s not like doing an assignment in your third year algebra. In most courses, you’re given problems that the professor believes that most people in the class can solve using the tools that have been provided in the last two weeks. Research is not like that. Research is open ended, you have questions, you don’t know if you know what you need to know, but you probably don’t. You may have the wrong question. You may have to revise your question. You certainly have to add to your questions once you start answering it. It leads to other things. It has its frustrating moments when you’re stuck on things, but it also has its thrills and excitement when you start making progress on a problem and you realize that you’re getting somewhere---that it’s going to be be good. That gives you a lot of energy to keep going. And I sometimes tell students that mathematics research is like finding the corner of a piece of paper stuck under a piece of furniture. The idea is to pull on it carefully so that you get it out. If you just yank it, just rip off a little corner, that won’t be so interesting. The information is deeper. You have to value your successes. They have to last you a while. Many mathematicians only write 2 or 3 papers a year. So you can’t do that and only enjoy the thrill for an hour. That’s not going to last you, right. So, you put a lot of work into it and then you put work into telling people about it. You have to get a certain amount of satisfaction from that. Is it competitive, well, yes, it’s competitive. But it’s not usually competitive in a sense that there are a lot of people competing to try to solve the same problem at the same time. It does happen but, more realistically, it is people working on related things. You want your successes to be valued. There are various ways as academic that one is recognized: your paper gets published in a good journal, you get nominated for, and possibly win, various prizes or fellowships and things like that, there are research grants, these are recognition that you’re being successful. So, it is competitive,  but it’s not like a boxing match, it’s not me or you. In fact, we can work together, it can be collaborative. But it does happen that people get scooped, but it’s not really a main issue. It doesn’t come up that often.

Yeah yeah OK. 

I disagree. I think it's collaborative… I think that most mathematicians work with one or two other people. I think you can collect the data on how many authors you have on a paper. How many papers have one author, two authors, three authors. So I think two or three authors is typical. And I think it's helpful for all the usual sort of psychology reasoning that you encourage one another and you hold each other accountable and stuff. But I think to the complement of the skills one might be good at one aspect or the other aspect but I think the brainstorming aspect I think the sum is greater than the parts. You say something and the other says that makes me think of this. So I think you need time on your own to do examples, at least in my area, to sit down and work examples and write things out… Yeah I think you need both working independently then collaboratively as a group but I think yeah I think it is unusual for a mathematician to publish on their own mainly.

Oh, because everyone is obsessed with these legends, these legends of, like, Ramanujan, who ... I don't know if you know much about Ramanujan. Ramanujan, like, he is, like, I don't care if you believe in God or not, but he is God’s gift to mathematics. He is some tiny man, not tiny man, but he is just some random human who lived in the middle of India, never had any formal training, never read, er, I don't know if he ever read books on mathematics, but he essentially, within his own mind, developed thousands of years of mathematics on his own in, essentially, poverty in the middle of India ..um, in the early 1900s and just was an absolute brilliant man, to the … and he really struggled with, sort of, um, explaining a lot of his ideas. So, he’d be, like, “this is a true statement” and people are, like, “what”” and it’s trivial, and then, but it would take everyone else years to figure it our. So, there’re still things that we’re coming up with that he was just, like “oh, obviously this is true; it’s trivial.” And, we’re like, “it’s true. All the evidence shows that it’s true, but we can’t show why it’s true.” And, people are still coming up with that and it’s absolutely beautiful. So, people, sort of, see that as, like, attainable, right? You can sit and you can build math from the ground up on your own, by yourself, in the middle of India in poverty in the early 1900s under British invasion, like, if you can do that anything, right. So, I think there’s, sort of, this idea that, if I want to be the best, I can do this locked up, locked away in a room. And, there’s, sort of, all of these stories of, sort of, these, like, mathematicians who are, sort of, like, crazy and quiet and, I mean, we all saw A Beautiful Mind, and John Nash is absolutely brilliant, um, and that’s a big big thing and there’s still, there’s still people like that, so one of the .. in my field, there’s a guy -- Jack Edmonds -- who is just absolutely brilliant and he never finished a PhD. He never did a Ph.D. He was just so brilliant they just, like. “Yeah, just keep doing your thing. Invent this field of study.” Um, and people really want to do that, ‘cause, sort of, these … If you can do all of these amazing mathematics on your own, you’re gonna be remembered forever. So, everyone kinda wants to strive for that. Um, but, it's absolutely a group, um, a group thing. Right, so the Erd?s. So, everyone has, like, an Erd?s number. He would just publish with everybody. He would hang out with people and they’d come up with ideas together. He never did math on his own. He brought, and he would bring communities together to research. Um, and, that’s why he has so many papers, ‘cause he pushed the boundaries of, sort of, this collaborative research method. Um, and I think people forget that, ‘cause they wanna be, like, they wanna be the best and they wanna publish on their own and they forget that if you work together you can have something that’s greater than the sum of its parts.

Yes, in the sense that, you know, you have to keep thinking about, em, special idea or topic you have in mind. Ah, and you do it on your own. But, the interaction is crucial because you always get into dead ends or you make mistakes so bring in, um, a collaborator makes all the difference. You open up channels. You get the right perspective. Yay, I guess some people may work on their own very well. Well, Newton, Newton was an example. So, yeah. I mean, this issue of, you know, multi-authors is kind of new too, right? It’s a new phenomenon. And, yeah, it’s not obvious why it’s needed now because it wasn't needed in the past… Actually, yes when refereeing to a comment that many researchers in the 3rd world feel that they need a collaborator in the 1st world, sort of to give them that credibility, I just got an email from a guy from Argentina that wants to collaborate and they are forced into that a little bit because of the system there. Yeah, but even, you know ...  I think it’s got to be a little strange to find a single author paper nowadays. You wonder why that’s so rare nowadays.

Yes, I agree with that because when push comes to shove it’s between you and yourself, a white piece of paper and a pencil - to write a proof of a statement or solve a problem because that is where the act of creativity takes place. That is where the skeleton is, where the essence is. The communicative and the social parts is the dressing around - which why this act of creativity is bound to be a solitary endeavor. 

I think that when you do your PhD you very rarely bring out anything of substance until you have completely put together in a form that is published in your thesis or is published somewhere else. The reason is that… this time is very much of keeping this information to yourself until such time you have results… A number of colleagues have said that they had an idea, they discussed it outside their frame, as an originator of the idea and then they lost the thrust of their PhD… So you don’t discuss it. If you are in applied mathematics, or theoretical physics or in math education – this is a very different environment. When I did my PhD many years ago there were discussions all the time with graduate students about what we were doing or focusing on that, or on that, what can you bring to help me, what can I bring to help you, and so on… because the problem is bigger in scope, much more general than a very narrow field that you’re dealing with a specific problem which has limited results in the way it is structured, where in different areas it is much broader.   

I believe it is changing, for a long time many mathematicians were working individually. My view, my observation, my experience is that this is changing. People are working together. I think that this may be as knowledge is known how quickly, it’s no longer, we don’t send letters by boat. So - that the math progress is rapidly being known through the international conferences, everybody is travelling, people have been more inclined to work together. I also has to do with personality; mathematicians often have certain types of personalities that might be more solitary in nature. There is definitely more introvert than extrovert in mathematicians… it’s common to see that kind of personality that is more solitary in nature.

Oh very… Well its that love hate relationship we have with it. Well at least for me in math right there it's hated when it doesn't work when it works. You know harder it is the greater the reward. Well actually I'm at the stage in my life where I don't want easy rewards right.

If you're stuck, you can't prove what you want to prove. Sometimes it isn't true and you don't know whether it's true or not true. So probably not having the right tools at the time or not having the right approach can be frustrating.

So, this is how math research works: you come up with a problem; you spend three hours talking about it with friends; you come up with 18 ideas; and then your’re stuck on one part and you bang your head against the wall for 18 months and then all of a sudden, you know, Steve walks by and is, like, “did you add 2 to it?” and you’re, like, “well there’s the paper. I guess we’re done now. Great work, Steve.” And … even though you spent 18 months and, like, it just didn’t occur to you. So, you’re just sometimes stuck, um, and there’s not a huge framework for math research as well. There’s not … math is a lot more fluid. So, now that … I’m doing research in education and that’s a framework. It's, ah, figuring out what you want to learn. Figure out how you’re going to ask that in participants. Who do you want to a .. who are your participants. Ask them the questions. Look them over. Identify themes. Write the paper. Done. Like, there’s this nice process and in ... not that it always works and there’s always snags, whatever --  but in math, sometimes you can work on a problem for years. So, I have a professor who spent five years on his Ph.D., working and working and working on this problem and, at the end of the five years, it was false. Everything they’d done, had done, was factually trivial. And then he was, like, “I've spent five years in a Ph.D. and now it meant nothing. I have no publications. I’ve done... like, I haven't done anything.” And, it kinda was like, yeah, well, “we can still give you a Ph.D., ‘cause you’re gonna write down everything you did, but you can't publish this. There's nothing here.” And, I mean, I mean, his career was just decimated. He’d never published a paper, because he couldn’t. He had no backing to be able to get into these research groups, to be able to do this research, and it’s just, yeah. And, and, there’s also no end to it, so I have another friend who, sort of, took a research area that exists and made a modification. So, this is going to make it more interesting, more difficult, and more useful. And, started working on that and it just kept going, and it just kept going. And, it was, like, when do you, when do you stop? When do you put the box around it? His thesis is 500 pages. Took him 8 years. And, it's just, like … ‘cause there’s no, there’s no bounds, um, and you can spend months just being stuck. It’s, yeah. And how is it competitive? Mathematicians are so competitive. They wanna be the best They wanna be the first. Every mathematician wants to be Terrence Tao. Everyone. Um, I don't  know if you know Terrence Tao. He won, like, the Fields Medal and he’s, like, absolutely brilliant. He’s, like, thirty and he’s just, like … When he was 12, he was, like, writing papers. He’s just Terrence Tao. But, everyone wants to be like that and everyone wants to just keep going, keep going and, and be better and they will cut other people down to get there. And, because mathematicians, again, because it's a solitary pursuit, so, as you’re learning that math, because you’re really bright and stuff, society doesn't really like bright people, doesn’t like people that like math, that's always been a thing. That's been true for a hundred years. People don't like smart people. Like, little kids don't like smart kids. And, math ...  if you can do math, you're smart. So, we’ve, sort of, always been pushed to the periphery even as children. And, I think we’ve been socialized for a long time to just, sort of, learn that we don't have social skills. And then we really internalize that. Math is also nice because you can learn it on your own. If you don't have good social skills, it's a really good place for you to be. So you, sort of, get this weird group of adults who have been poorly socialized because of their love of math or who have been poorly socialized and found math as, sort of, a reprieve. So, it’s a weird, weird group. It’s just weird. And, no one really has social skills and everyone knows that we don't we social skills and we talk about it. Yet all we do is talk to each other and do math together and we have great social skills. Right, if our research is being done after the end of a conference at a beer, at, like at a bar bar getting beer, that’s pretty good social skills. Um, so, it’s weird, it’s weird. So, I feel like that competitiveness is, sort of, what keeps us tied to that idea of, oh we’re socially awkward. ‘Cause we’re not. Um, but, if we can be competitive, like, “oh I can be better this person.” There’s also a weird thing where there’s a competition to be the most awkward. And, it’s beyond me but it’s so, it’s so cutthroat. I don't know if you’ve been up to Waterloo yet, or, I don't know if you are talking to the graduate students … um, but, but I, I left that university twice. I left once in my undergraduate. I went back, ‘cause all my friends were there, and, even with my, all of my friends there, that actually gave me more information. I kind of saw how the department treated its students and it fosters a competitive environment and it tries as hard as it can to pit their students against each other and, when I saw that, I, I came back here kicking and screaming. I was like, I, I can’t be a part of that. It, so, they’re taking these young, these young kids. They’re coming straight out of their undergraduate. They’re twenty-two, twenty-four years old and pitting them against each other and saying “work harder, work harder. If you're not Terrance Tao, we don't care about you.” And, it’s not uncommon across mathematics for that to be a thing. Not that I want to tear anybody down and I don’t ... I think they’re... In my experience, that’s what I saw and it’s not uncommon and I know a lot of people across universities across North America that feel the same, not about Name but about their universities. Um, and that’s one thing I really like about Name, is Name is a non-competitive Ivory tower research leader. That's what I, that’s what I think. Name is not competitive. Name encourages its students to work together, to work interdisciplinarily, um, and come up with these innovative programs, um. So, recently, Name just hit the fifth best comprehensive university in Canada. We are below UBC, SFU, Waterloo, and Guelph. Yeah. We outrank Concordia. We outrank Laurier. We outrank Calgary, Alberta: All of those school, we outrank. Um, which is, I think astounding. I think it just shows how good of a university we are and how this collaborative, inclusive environment can create a research leader. Um, so I think Name is just like yeah, we were an iv... we’re, like, as good as an ivory tower, but we’re, like, an open field of friendship and happiness. So.

Yes. You, you. No, well I mean it can be terrible, yes, I pass, I … Many of my first ten or fifteen years was, they were pretty bad. You had to learn to live with uncertainty. Everything you do becomes a difficult problem. You think of something, immediately, you hit a roadblock.  So, it’s very frustrating. So, it just … you had to humble down. I mean, your, your ignorance is like the oceans. Yeah. I mean, it’s just, everything's difficult. Some people are geniuses and can move very fast, but there are very few of those. And, even then, they will tell you they … most of the problems are very hard to solve. So, you just humble down and do what you can. People actually write papers about what they can do but very few solve real problems because real problems are difficult. You know, people attack them little by little and progress is done, um, but, you know, it’s just small contributions here and there. Just because exactly that phenomenon. People write whatever they can. It’s not that they are solving something urgent. So, yay, you had to learn to live with that. Otherwise, you, you cannot just …

Where you work on a problem for four or five years and you don’t see a way out. Another instance is when you have tried hard to solve a problem and when a colleague elsewhere solves it faster than you and better than you, and does a better job, and that the competitive aspect.

Like any studies if you don’t have frustrations I don’t think you can progress. My better colleagues do not have these frustrations. To me, the frustrations are part of the learning process. In the same way, I have always taught my students that tests are not the outcome, they are part of the learning process you achieve and they give you a measure of progress through time… and it applies to life in general. You never respond immediately. You sleep over it and then you get a different point of view… part of the frustration is think is to force you to open up to other ideas. You do not have frustrations that’s like you need to change your part. Your part is the ability to move, this openness to other ideas, which do not seem quit related at the moment… I think anything can be frustrating.

It can be frustrating, but frustrating good. This is mathematics. You are solving problems and you love it but then you can take time, and get stuck until you debug your mind, it is an enjoyable frustrating. You can’t be a mathematician if you don’t love that because this is what happens all the time. I think this is why I am saying that it is changing because you exchange with other people and debug your mind as well in conversation on the board, it is not just a talk, you really sweat, you erase that white board, then you continue… enjoyable moments.  

Yes. Especially when it's more also related to gender. Men are more aggressive. I find them more aggressive and more that they take initiative more actually. I see them more competitive. That's what I'm trying to say. Whereas the women are more like HMMMM (gesture) the women in math that I know… It’s also true that there are very few women especially in certain areas like I was looking at, I went last week to this applied math SIAM. And it was a session on geometric mechanics and there were maybe 20 guys and 25 and two women. It was me and a student. Well the guys, oh it's also geometric mechanics so its close to engineering so you know maybe that's but they are discovered this and that and that you know. It’s interesting to see how secure are these guys when they present their work… Yes guys are very confident. You know although they don't say much sometimes. But doesn't matter. Right. Whereas I'm always aware of trying to stay away of from trivialities and trying to stay away from things that would be obvious to the audience. Maybe, but I put it on the gender because as a woman I don't want, I want them to respect me for what I'm doing and not sort of make them all think let her be with us, she has to be with us too. There is also that kind of attitude.

I think it depends very much in the area. So some of the stuff I've published it's not that I'm the only person working on it but you know you have the idea and you play around with it. And then oh my gosh I'm going to teach two courses. I’ll set it down and I'll come back at the end of the term and then sort of no fear that somebody's going to scoop you. But I did some stuff in the last couple of years, well one summer and a student, an undergraduate student, working on something and I looked at ArXiv one night and somebody had done part of it and it's like, oh shoot. So I think it depends on even the sub area whether it's hot. And then of course then there's stress in terms of strategies, do you put it on the arXiv right away do we wait whether we submit it or not. So I think it can be competitive in some areas… Responding to a question Do you shy away from certain areas now that you know that they're more competitive? Yes. Yeah I think so. I'm I'm not. Yeah. Unless you have the time to to spend on it and you know you are not going to be interrupted because oh my gosh I have to teach two courses and it's it's an interesting dance with the students because you don't want to put them on something useless but you don't put them on something so hot that they work for two months and then they lose it because of somebody else. So in that case you kinda of reposition the student on something. OK. Well pay more attention to this aspect. I still wrote something up and the publication just appeared last month actually so that it all worked out in the end and it was kind of a sad morning first. It wasn't all of what we were working on but it was part of it. And therefore you know when we finally wrote the paper we had to refer to the other one which is which is appropriate. Yes but it goes to focus differently… If you've done it a different way that would be OK if you proved it differently. Yes. But, the way they have proved it was similar enough to the track we were on. But yeah certainly a different proof would be right… You need that originality so not to be scooped.

Um, I mean, depends on your personality. I’m a very competitive person. Um, but, I mean, eventually, you realize it’s just inside you. I mean, it’s ridiculous. It’s just, you know, people are competitive, but mathematics is not competitive at all. No, because, it’s like, you know, you have to, you know, you got to play basketball against a professional basketball player. You’re not going to be competitive. The guy is much better than you… Yes when responding to a comment that some people say that if they have an idea, they want to get it into arXiv as soon as possible so that they can claim it, that used to be an issue, correct, and it still is. Yes. I don’t know, you know. That can happen. Yeah, you have the same idea. You have an idea and suddenly a lot of people have been thinking about the same idea. Yes, it’s in the air. Yes. Yes. But, I mean sometimes you cannot publish in the top journal, so, and you you don’t write it exactly how other people want you to write it. So, you are kind of out of the group. Yeah, it’s a sociological phenomenon. And, it’s there; it’s real. Because our referees, our top journals, there’s a language you should speak and people speak it differently. I’m talking about mathematical lingo. There are different ways of writing things, but, I mean, um … but people now are pretty mellow. I think, in the past, used to be much harder. I mean, I remember reading about … why Newton’s time, it was awful. Einstein’s time also was pretty bad. Here, now I think it’s everything is becoming a bit more diffuse, that issue. I think so. My feeling is, I ... OK … unless, you know, it’s a big idea, something that will really work, but most ideas complement each other and nothing is big nowadays. Of course, yes, if it’s a Nobel Prize idea, people will get really upset, correct. No no, if someone steals your idea without credit, it can be pretty bad.

I can speak for myself, but I think it applies to many other mathematicians. We chose mathematics … or in choosing mathematics we were motivated by a desire to be creative, in that choice there was certainly a dose of ego. If this is a difficult problem, or if this is a challenging problem, I would like to solve it because I would like to be proud of myself and that’s how we were thinking when we were younger in high school and we decided we wanted to be mathematicians – there was a dose of ego in there, there is no doubt about it. The ego of being able to tackle challenges, to be amazed or complete a puzzle - there is an ego element and therefore if there is an ego element it’s bound to be competitive and obviously you know that your colleagues and friends are working on similar problems, you meet with them on a regular basis, correct, you tell stories, you never tell the whole story and you are quite happy when you beat them to the finish. 

I started by saying that I wish I was more successful precisely and in part for the competitive aspect, there are many problems yet to be solved, there are problems I wanted to solve for twenty years, but they have been solved, so, if I was more efficient managing my time and more diligent in seeking resources, in being on par in a better way, maybe I would have done better.

I very much have been a generalist in my mathematics - which has its downfalls. You don’t progress as much in one area, but I think one needs a balance between the mathematicians who have a very narrow interests and ones who have a broader experience in order to view mathematics in different ways. I would look for a balance.

You can insert any discipline. Why is mathematics highlighted as different? If we are talking about academic, there is always a type of competition for publication… I don’t see mathematics as competitive more than other disciplines, especially in research if I think in term of publication.

Well, maybe it helps because I’m constantly talking to other people. I have a Skype meeting today with somebody in redacted. So, uh, there’ll be another Skype meeting on Monday with people in redacted, so I guess it really helps…  It helps, you mean keeping up with things? Well it helps because they’re learning the latest things as well so I’m learning what they’ve, what they’ve kept up with. Yeah. I’m learning from people that who have been keeping up, not only keeping up, but learning some major theorems that I didn’t know about that were done thirty years ago. And, uh, if I’m lucky enough to work with a really strong mathematician, who really learnt the major results and I have not learned those results, that’s how I end up learning them. So, some of the big breakthroughs in mathematics happened because some old result suddenly was rediscovered or was just not rediscovered, just sort of suddenly people realized that, and a couple of people ended up using the same old result at the same time just because somehow it came to light at the right time. So some of the big open conjectures were discovered that way.

No, I don’t think so. Other than, I guess, well, I sort of alluded to that like maybe applied mathematics is certainly maybe very different from say areas in pure math, so, I think within mathematics there’s a huge range and so like the sort of things I do can be very different from sorts of things people in other disciples do, like a lot of the journals I look at are not, would not be like mathematics journals.

I think it would be very, very useful to investigate how people go out and find information and the impact on how people choose to go out and look for information. Maybe I cannot definitely defend the argument because research always carries uncertainty, but often some research ideas might be more valuable than the others, more important than others, or have more significant implications than the others. So, with the updated information, a researcher will have a better judgement on which direction he or she should put in more efforts or time, and that could have been more fruitful.  I think it’s useful. And sometimes this might be even help to beneficially shift research direction… Yes, I believe so it is important to stay of up do date and where you spend your time. And sometimes I also follow relevant areas which are not among my major research focuses because I think it is also very much important particularly in long-run. For example, nowadays machine learning, AI is so popular. It’s developing so fast and become more and more powerful. Keeping an eye on this area will also be beneficial to research in other areas such actuarial science. Nowadays, insurance companies are actually very much passionate using machine learning or more general AI for their business. We actually have been approached quite often for possible collaborations. So keeping updated on the machine learning area would be very useful, or sometimes is critical to developing new tools, or maybe even a new research area, in actuarial science. 

Right That diffusion of information from one field to another, exactly, so it’s not just, you know, for the traditional topics, but also the relevant, new, emerging topics… Uh, so, I think what topics, they’re not traditional topics, but they may have impact like machine learning…, for the example I just mentioned I think this is driven by the needs of industry. I think this often is from a researcher’s intuition. Sometimes a new thing comes up and people realize it could be potential useful. So keeping open-minded and equipping oneself with a broad view is quite beneficial in this regard… Usually I start from Google Scholar when having to learn more about a topic that is new, not in your traditional area, and sometimes, you know, when I identify the name, or the names of researchers I may try to talk to them if it’s possible.

The frustration, that’s just a fact of life. But, in my experience, a successful research project comes about from, first of all, having a good question. Sometimes you get a good question because it comes up in some conversation. Other times it’s somebody else’s question that you heard at a conference or somebody asked you over coffee. But in addition to a good question, you need a good idea. You don’t usually start working on problems cold, where you have no idea how it might go. You tend to pick problems where you have some idea of how to get started. This doesn’t mean you know where it’s going to end up or how it actually goes but you have a way, a method of attack, you have an approach. And you look for problems where you think you have a way in. And maybe that’s a way in where you have some special expertise. Different people know different things. I had a friend, a collaborator years ago. He was blind, and he worked in the same area. He worked in operator theory, but he knew a lot about several complex variables. He said this was in his toolbox that wasn’t in the toolbox of most people working in operator theory. He felt that gave him an advantage for certain kinds of questions, and he would seek out those kinds of questions. So we all have things we know and so you try to choose problems where you have a reasonable chance of success. You don’t solve all problems, but, fortunately, we’re not rated on the problems that we can’t solve, we’re rated on the problems we do solve. It’s the successes that get measured, not the failures. Everybody has failures, you know---they don’t count laughter.

I don't think it has anything to do with it.

I don't think the other two but the competitive is Yes. Because sometimes you don’t want to check arXiv and you don’t what to know if it was out there. So sometimes it's sort of like OK fine with within- you know I'm going to submit it to the journal in the next three or four days I'm just not going to check the arXiv because I don't want to know if somebody you know because then it's that close. Yes and if I've seen it and I go oh my gosh now you have to cite it. Now you have to cite it. So I've deliberately not looked. So I mean I wouldn't do that for months but yeah. Yeah. And so yeah there's some trepidation. Yeah some of that. And so yeah that's. And it's not just me it's one of my co authors in the same area and she sort of said you know this area is too hot. I'm not sure I want to keep pushing on this. So there's a fine balance between something that's that's yours and and is recognized as important but not something that everybody else wants to do. So it's got to be important but not too competitive. Others may feel differently. I think it all depends because others might think that it brings out the best work because you're competing against everybody.

It depends… chooses and searching certain topics as opposed to searching for information and keeping up-to-date But I still have the other experience of you know somebody was telling me they think you're working on this conjecture or something and then I went to the Google scholar and I came back the next day and somebody solved that. Like maybe you should have looked.  

Yeah yeah. 

Responding to a series of comments Yeah it's interesting sometimes. Like we didn't ask these sorts of questions but sort of what I've been hearing and some of the interviews with mathematicians is that they don't miss. They're waiting for the alerts. They don't necessarily do comprehensive searches and so things like mathematical proofs can they can find out two years ago someone didn't feel very competitive published a very low ranking journal. So no one knowing you know even if you thought OK I could get only high ranking journals can get their alerts. So you've gotten that proof and it's two years you've worked on the solution and hey did you know that they solved it. Oh yeah. And they get sort of you know different kind of sense of feeling like wow I didn't even know what took place right. Yeah. Because if you have, you're expecting other mathematicians to follow the same pattern so that they are sharing information in the same way… Well I've also had the experience one one that I did I was working with a couple of other mathematicians and it was a conjecture and a paper from 1995 and so hasn't been solved. Well you'd better go through and make sure no one solved it. Right. So I went through Google Scholar and got about 200 results I looked at all of the 200 sites just briefly. Sure they hadn't addressed the conjecture but as a result of that then I found somebody’s thesis from the late 90s that had - didn't solve the conjecture but had some related results something from I think there's a PI Epsilon Mu journal, someone's undergraduate journals that had the conjecture. Well I think they conjectured something that actually my co-author had proved because she had been using Maple or something like this and were able to generate enough examples to prove something that the guy in the late 90s had just conjectured. Anyway so it was interesting even though we were looking at the entire history that there was stuff that wouldn't necessarily be easily been findable from the late 90s.

I think that people need to accept that they’re talking to each other and that’s how they are getting information. I think they need to accept that it’s not about, you know, “I got this fancy journal from whoever.” Um, I think we need to understand that we are sharing data with each other and we’re talking … we are making different papers more exciting by choosing to share these papers it our friends. Um, and that’s what making these papers big. And, that’s what's making the community bigger. And, what’s elevating different people’s research status is that communication, that sharing, and I don’t think that they realize that. I think they think if you’re not publishing in JCT, you’re nothing, but I don't think that’s true ‘cause I’ve seen a lot of nonsense papers is JCT, where I don’t... no one cares. But then I’ve got all these papers that all my friends are sharing, and everybody's talking about. It’s really exciting and it’s, like, new techniques and new, ah, new concepts and it’s, yeah, I think they just need to admit that they’re talking to each other and admit that that’s where they are getting their information.

Yes, but, you know, essentially, you have to forget that your competing, then you feel calm. But, you know, now that we are talking about .. you are right, the issue that someone may steal your ideas, I think I underplayed. I think it’s important. I’ll be careful if I have, if I think I have a good idea, I may not put it in the arXiv for a while. Because, yeah, you are guaranteed that you have priority. Yes and no, because, people ... you may have an idea, people may use the idea without quoting you. They can transform it and use it. So, to say I was the first to have that idea, yes, but I mean, no one knows this. Sometimes, you are right, sometimes, I don’t send … For example, one of my last paper, I didn’t put it anywhere. I published the paper in a journal, but I plan to continue working in that area, so why should I put it in the arXivs arXiv? And, I heard about people were putting a lot of … there was a famous mathematician, statistician in United States. I think he had some problems of priority. He used to ut a lot of stuff on the web and now it’s not so visible. I’m almost sure. Something happened. Something bad. He was very open. It was a big idea and it was a bit of an issue. No, you are right, that’s a big topic.
