Let’s go with mathematical physics. I think that covers it… let’s do that.
Condensed matter physics… and materials science.
I'll start then. Quantum physics, which to me includes atomic physics and quantum optics, as well as quantum computing and quantum information. 
Ya, it’s the same answer. 
I'd maybe say condensed matter physics and quantum optics.
These are all physics, and some are subsets of others, right? So, for me, if I had to pick one, I'd say astrophysics, but I would also say astronomy and cosmology.
For me I can start with soft matter physics and go down to biophysics, and then to biophysical chemistry.
The biophysics subject discipline, I guess. We’re working on optics and biology.
Well it’s easy, it’s astronomy. 
Photonics, optical networks and physics indication. OK, I guess this four, five disciplines serve center to my field of expertise.
That’s a good question. I guess the short answer is I don’t know, and for sure, physicists in high energy physics, theoretical, maybe experimental physics as well, use the arXiv a lot. They put their papers in the arXiv. Amongst younger physicists my impression is that this is generally true, so they are putting their papers in the arXiv and monitoring it daily. Among older physicists I think it’s sometimes true, but maybe not as universally true… and in other fields of physics is may is not universally true. I’m not one hundred percent sure of that... 
Physics is highly competitive, partly true because it is competitive, and partly because… I guess if you see a paper on the arXiv from a known person - it’s accepted that, ok, this is a reputable paper, I don’t need to wait for it to be peer reviewed in order to say (ok it is in a journal now and) I can trust it. I can read it myself because I know that Joe Blow this physicist over there has published this, I look at the title and find that this is interesting, reputable, and have a look at it. I think there’s that. I think among certain physicists that’s the default behavior. You look at the arXiv first, and see what’s going on, and to get interesting ideas.
Absolutely, especially in competitive fields.
It’s a good question whether research we do name is competitive, we have biophysics, condensed matter physics, and we have researchers in theoretical and experimental physics… They can be competitive for example, some of our researchers were involved in producing the first high temperature superconductor… Is that still a competitive field, I don’t know? There haven’t been any breakthroughs in decades so I wouldn’t say that it is a highly competitive field. Do my experimental high temperature superconducting colleagues scan the arXiv every day? I don’t know they do this as theoretical and experimental physicists do every day. I don’t know. 
I expect between engineers and physicists they might have different approaches… many similarities in terms of information-seeking, yes.
Ya, it is a bit hard to know exactly where, but I mean, we use arXiv a lot. Which, For me, it’s the go-to place. Some subfields of physics do not use arXiv at all, or very rarely, so that would be a huge difference.  There are also various indexing things that I don’t use but I assume people use. In quantum, generally we use them less than people in high energy physics, astronomy, although –
By indexing do you mean these PACS numbers if they still exist, or do you mean keywords and tags?
No, there are these websites for looking up papers that I never use.
Oh, I see. Different.
I don’t even remember if we still have to put in these OCIS or PACS codes. I think we do, and I can’t think of any time that’s ever been useful to me.  I guess it helped PRL decide which section to put articles in.  
But I agree with what P30 is saying, that I use arXiv a lot, and I think all fields of physics use it somewhat, but the extent to which that is our go-to place I think varies.  And I think already in quantum-anything, it is pretty high but I’m still paying attention periodically to what comes out in the journals that I kind of follow. 
And I have the feeling that for the past ten years or more, the quantum gravity people – I don’t even think they bother to look at journals, I mean, many of them don’t even bother to publish in the journals as far as I can tell.  And I think I more mainstream – you know, condensed matter or something - it’s probably less true than in quantum information that arXiv has squeezed out the journals.  But that’s me guessing because it’s not my field. 
I also think, and I don’t know if it’s what you mean by indexing, but there are these different attempts to build kind of, academic social media sites, whether it’s Research Gate or Academia or SciRate and things like that, and I feel like some of them have become dominated by certain communities. So, I think there’s a fraction of the theoretical quantum information community that pays attention to SciRate, because all of their friends are rating things on that. I don’t know, to me, I never look at it because it’s always abstract theoretical stuff, I know it is not going to be the bulk of what I’m looking for. 
I mean, the journals for geophysical fluid dynamics are rather different than the journals for condensed matter physics. So, people are just looking into different things, but whether that actually affects how they sort of sort out or process the information, I don't know. 
I’m also just not sure.
The short answer is I don't know. Because I know what the astronomers do, I don't really know what the physicists do. In my experience, astronomers, so the broad perspective here is how you find what's going on in your field in general, I would say to find new information almost all astronomers read the arXiv first and almost exclusively. Never look at journal table of contents, to my knowledge, if it's not on arXiv, it's gone. That's in terms of being aware of the latest stuff. And then for researching, when you're writing a paper on a certain area and you want to find out more things that you've missed, again, astronomers, to my knowledge, use almost exclusively the NASA ADS system, over all the other tools.
I think the arXiv is the main source, to my knowledge, but it depends. I personally look at articles published by my network of researchers. The researchers that are in the same field. For example, if I do biophysics, in some kind of systems, I look at the articles from the people who do research on similar fields. I follow them on different platforms, and, for example, there are some researchers I subscribed to their Google Scholar. So, if they publish something new, I can receive an email about it. There are also some webservices like Semantic Scholar where people make a profile and when they publish, I get an alert. And for me, I think I'm in the early stage researcher, so maybe the way I look for new data or new articles related to my research is different from the people who are established researchers like faculty and professors. Usually, for me, I subscribe to the RSS feeds of the main journal articles that are related to my field and I receive the RSS feed of them. I then look at table of contents and headlines and read the papers in the RSS feed.
It’s a good question how do you know which are the main journals in your field? .…it depends. For some of them, it depends maybe on the impact factor of the journal, or the well-established authors. For these well-established authors, it’s not important where they published their articles; just because you trust them and their past research you follow their new articles. It could be in any publication, in any journal.
Yes. Yes, I think maybe because I did, um, I have a little bit of a biology background, not everyone in the lab has a biology background. But I think that the way the physics people will search for like papers or information is different than the bio people. I also have some philosophy background, so that as well. The most obvious one is the type of databases that people search through. I think that it’s interesting because I think the biology research, the more current it is the better, that’s not necessarily true for the physics. At least the biology that we kind of do in the lab. Some biological topics are still pretty early in its research. In terms of how you get information, I’m not sure. I don’t know if I can pinpoint keywords or anything like that. 
Um I’m sure the answer is yes, although I don’t have more than anecdotal information about what other people do. That’s my impression from talking to colleagues. 
I can’t think of anything anecdotes specific, but when I discuss current events with colleagues, they might have obtained their information first from a different source than where I saw it first, but I can’t think of a specific example. 
I’m sure that’s the case, that some researchers get information first just because of the way they look for information partly because they are looking at certain sources. Some sources get different kinds of information faster, other people are just better connected to the broader community, so they naturally find out first through those connections. 
No, no, no. The technique is going to be the same. Yes, because I'm doing physics education as well. I mean, the educational, computational thinking and the applications. So, the concept of the computer science. Subjects how to apply to other disciplines, of course, disciplines to apply them, so I perform to do research techniques and methodology is all the same way.
They you the same strategies because they have and actually like for example, I was thinking about asking you how to analyze educational data for my social science.  That's what I'm saying. Yeah. This question brings me that I'm using for both up to now with the same techniques and methodology.
Well, yeah, somewhat. There’re also similarities. I'd say this.
Well, when you say seek information, it's really vague. So. Assuming you mean research, seeking out information for your research and where you go to that, the type of strategies you use, the types of people or things you seek out, the tools that you're using. Any of those sorts of things.
So, I think on theory side, we are more likely, of course, to start out with all the theoretical papers and the research and the literature and so on. And the difference I would say with experimentalists if they do that too. But I think there are also more likely to be talking to each other as lab groups and lab partners to know the specific details of experiments. So, I would say that would be, for example, a difference in start. Yeah. 
So other than that, you know I think library has unfortunately come up less, and I think the physical - physically going to the library is something nobody is really doing.  Both theory and experimentalist.
I find that there is also the generation difference and not just theory and experiment. 
So, for example, my students are much more likely to be seeking out social media groups to ask questions. Have those kinds of discussions online or go to, for example, these newer sorts of research related Web sites like academia. I mean, arXiv is, I think, somewhere in between. Maybe it's not that old. It is not that new anymore.
So, in my mind, though, it's still because, I remember a time before it (arXiv) existed and I started my research. Right. So, I would go up to the library and then arXiv became the big one.  But in the early days it was still not really a replacement for the library so it would. My mind arXiv is something that's younger than me, right. I think of it as relatively new.  Whereas for today's students, arXiv is not even really a thing. When we did research from the arXiv, we would like to pick out the best papers every day. It was possible because there weren't that many. But, no one does that anymore among my team. That's not where they go, right? There are other ways. As I said, social media, academia.com, the ones that have higher ratings. Those kinds of things that matter more to the newer generation. And that’s, I think, both for theory and experiment. So that's kind of a difference. And for me, it's you know, I'm trying to adapt to that now more. But for me as hard. I still use arXiv as the go to because that’s what I trust. So, I think the current generation, I don't know, is going to change as they go forward and become more senior in their careers. Are they then going to default to arXiv too realizing that its more reliable? I don't know. So, you don't have that data yet. I think that’s all I can kind of think of.
Theoretical. 
I would say applied.
I just think the question is ill-posed for physics. First of all, I think you can talk about applied physics and then throughout physics you can talk about how close we are to potential applications. I don't see that in contrast to theory. I think either theoretical or an experimental physicist might be more or less applied. A lot of P32's work is much more applied than any of mine, even if mine's experimental and his is theoretical. Within a physics department that's focused on academic research - so a little further from applied - we would traditionally divide ourselves only into theoretical or experimental.
And then even within that, I'd say, okay, I consider myself an experimental physicist, but a fair fraction of what we do is still theoretical.
The border between theory and applied… ya, it doesn’t exist. I mean, I'm definitely a theorist, so definitely theoretical applies. But some of what I do is hopefully applied.
Yeah. I'm the same. But I don't know how I would characterize teaching as either theory or applied.  Presumably all of teaching is an application of something. I mean, otherwise…
I would rather teach the theoretical student I’ve imagined instead of the actual student 
I see, okay!
I guess I'd put myself under, you know, in astrophysicsnomy the more correct term is observational, because we don't build instruments, we use them. Many of us, some people do build instruments, but that would fall under applied, I guess. 
My field is theoretical. For me, my own research is actually pure science because it doesn't have any direct application related to technology or real life.  
For me, I’m doing the applied sort of aspect, I don’t do theory really.
I would say theoretical. 
I guess in my case, it's 50 50. Yeah. In my case, the physics has theoretical part more than optics?  No. More than chemistry, thought, I guess.  The theoretical part goes hand in hand with the practical part.   
Definitely. Theoretical. Yeah.
I don’t know. I’m not sure. Possibly they search for information differently.
First of all, how come ‘experimental’ wasn’t one of the choices?
If you would have had ‘experimental’ physics here I would have identified as experimental… but even theoretical physicists are often trying to compare their calculations with experiments and they’ll still be searching for the same types of information…
I would say that it is always important to keep up to date because you don’t want to be working on something that’s already been published… you want to know… for example, if you are a theoretician you want to know what people have found experimentally so that you can perhaps come up with a theory to explain it. So I would think …if you were an experimentalist, same thing, you’re trying to fit your work in terms of what others have already done and make sure that you are not repeating something unless there are questions you could answer, or contribute more towards that area.
It might be easier to hear how the theorist and experimentalist answer to hear how different we are. 
Experimentalists seek information by doing experiments, don't you? That's not what you mean.
I would guess it's about the same. I mean for applied, if you really talk about applied physicists, I think they probably spend more time looking at patents and you know, talking to people and companies and things like that.
But if you talk about just theoretical and experimental physicist in physics departments, I think it's basically the same. 
I mean, I wonder about the division between time spent reading journal articles and going and talking to people by visiting or talking to people at conferences and everyone does some of all of that.
I'm not even sure that I'd expect a big distinction between theory and experiment. I think it is different personality types. I've known people, either theorists or experimentalists who said, “I just hate doing it this way. I don't learn that way. I refuse to go to conferences. I just need to sit quietly and read a paper.” And I've known people who are somewhat the opposite.
there are different things very specific to experimentalists. So, you know, as a theorist, I never look at the specifications on certain device or things like that, whereas experimentalists definitely need to know more about equipment. So, there are some sort of things along those lines.  There’re also, maybe the types of information we seek are sometimes different, in the sense of using sparrow techniques is different than using theoretical techniques. Looking at theory papers that might be applied to experiments, would be something an experimentalist would look for whereas theorists would focus on things that are different.
Yeah, probably not many theorists would read articles and reviews of scientific instruments. 
There are specific journals that are relevant.
I'm a theorist, but I'm in an experimental group. Certainly, there are papers that would sort of not interest me as a theorist, but they are interested in an experimental group because, well, here's an experimental proposal that maybe would be useful within the certain kind of equipment that we have
but even given a paper we're both interested in, it's true that we'll filter differently. You’ll skip the experimental details, and certainly if it's one of these papers giving part numbers and things - you don't care.
And I'll skip a lot of the math, you know, I think we give people the benefit of the doubt, right? I figure, I trust that they know how to do algebra and I want to know the answer and I'm not that interested in the technique. And you probably say, I trust that they know how to do their experiment, I don't need the details, I want to see how it turned out. And maybe I'm sitting there thinking, I bet I can find a hole in their experimental method! And you're saying, I bet they did this integral wrong! 
There’re also certainly lab tours, right? I mean, it's not really relevant to this, but I guess a lot of the information that we want as experimentalists about specific techniques - I don't expect to get from the journal articles.  I'd be much more likely to get it from a PhD thesis. First of all, my students use heavily PhD thesis from people who've pioneered things that we're trying to do. Or we go visit a lab and in addition to talking about the big picture and looking at their posters and talking about their physics, if it's something close to anything we might ever try to implement, yeah, we're actually staring at how they’ve got it set up and asking for the behind the scenes information 
and there's a bit of that in theoretical work too, because not all the details get published. 
Is there any equivalent… - It's true. A lot of harder core experimentalists than myself pay attention to this.. reviews of scientific instruments and things like that where there are articles with no interesting science, but important tricks for how to do X, Y, or Z. - is there anything similar in like mathematical physics or something where just useful tricks for doing theory are actually published? 
there’s math journals? 
yeah, math journals - there's more of an overlap with the journal of mathematical physics or something like that. Right? There's more of a context. Review articles would do that. 
there's this thing called mathematical reviews, which publishes reviews about papers. I think people use it. I tried to use it once. I've written many reviews for them but have only used it once.
I mean, reviews are different, and I think experimentalists also read reviews. I think part of what I wonder is maybe it's just normal in normal physics journals to publish articles that are about theoretical techniques that it wouldn't be surprising to show you a new way, and show you someone had invented a way to calculate something as a theory paper, whereas experimentalists feel like “well, that has to get relegated to some scientific instruments journal. It's not really physics”. 
Now you don't agree with me. Terminal inferiority complex! 
persecution complex, more like! 
I think math journals would do that
How to solve the master equation? You’d find that article in a math journal?
might be, ya
or in a review article. Review articles.
At least in astrophysics, I don't think there's a huge difference in the way differing groups of people seek information. There's only five, about five main journals in astronomy. Not that, as I said, most people look at the arXiv anyway, they don't look at the journals. So, the journals are almost irrelevant, almost everything that's been submitted gets submitted to arXiv these days. Some people just look at arXiv and you can filter it now even by subfield, so I can exclude planets, I don't do planets. So, if I filter it on galaxies, cosmology, the stuff I do, basically then you're looking at maybe 30-40 articles a day, so that's manageable to just scan it very quickly. So, we use a thing, in fact, in the astrophysics group, we use this thing called Vox Charta, which is a front end for arXiv, I don't know if you've seen it? But it basically allows you to vote on papers you are going to discuss. So, twice a week the group is invited to vote on some papers to be discussed and, students often don't want to vote, they maybe feel a little bit intimidated, but they like to come and listen anyway. We choose some papers to discuss and, you are supposed to have read them in advance, but in reality, time pressures are such that we just read them and discuss them there. Flip through and look through the relevant figures and work backwards. I hope they learn something from this process.  
Here at this institution we don't have a big group for biophysical, so we don't have group meetings or journal clubs. For me it's even harder because I don't have any other group member, I'm alone in my research field so no collaborator, just me and my supervisor. So, the information, most of the are molecular dynamics simulations, so I can’t ask for any, it’s not similar to, if I compare to, for example, astronomy, there is no information or data that I compare with that, except those published in journals. So, if I want to compare, I need to completely do a study again to compare the results. For me, again, because I'm new, what I did to seek information is I seek articles that was related to my research and the citations from major articles and go back, for example, up to ten years ago read related articles.  
That’s interesting. I guess I’m not actually too sure, I feel like the end results that I see people in our lab getting if they’re on the more theoretical side or the more applied side is different, but I don’t know what their processes are. Like I don’t know if I could actually say how they’re doing it differently. But I think it might be similar in terms of they are searching through more math related things, older, they’re not necessarily doing like what I said the current research, sort of pull where you do a time limit. I don’t think it is super relevant what we knew about our biology topic twenty years ago. Mostly probably not relevant now, whereas now, for matrix math, it could still be relevant. I guess they also go through more textbooks, I think. I don’t find textbooks to be super useful for myself. And some of the people who do more theoretical stuff, I’ve seen them take out some books from the library.
I would probably say no. But that’s qualified by the fact that in astronomy the applied and theoretical sides tend to be rather close and maybe intertwined. I could have answered the question as applied because I do theoretical work and I do – so theoretical work means calculations on the computer with pencil or paper. Applied means me going to the telescope taking observations, so I still do both. I must answer no, but that answer would be rather specific to astronomy and not to physics.
Well it’s the same because that’s the way I’ve been trained. I believe that's the scientific way of finding truth. In fact, so I'm not convinced yet we should look at them differently even. I'm thinking right now I’ll apply the same method to several science, but I don’t know.
So, some of my previous work looked at exactly that and found exactly how really how did the people who were in the lab had better contact the individual people so they would reach out to them first and theoreticians went to arXiv first thing in the morning. So, we had these stats about where physicists were putting their results into arXiv. So, there was a 3 p.m. cutoff and so you wanted to make sure your paper was in at the last moment because it turned up first on the next day’s listing.  It was a game.  So, they had to systematically dismantle that so that you couldn't do it and you weren't getting a citation advantage by being first on the page the next day. I had to make those changes happen because they recognized that this was taking place. Because there's only so many papers you can read. So, the sequence mattered. Even though that had absolutely nothing to do with which articles are more prominent or not or more important. It was just. That's how it was.  
…physicists are very good at gaming systems and they notice the pattern right away because nobody came and told me that. But I knew it. Therefore, I knew I had to play that game too. And then my student told me that they played that game, too. Yes. My most recent PhD student. 
Exactly. …bibliometrics, H-Index, gaming for prestige, …a metric beyond citations that we're going to try and make him look really good. And so that's why he devised that metric.  Because that's what physicists do in their spare time.
I do think that it is important. Well, because we are teachers… For researches it is important. To stay on top of theories and developments in our field then you need to keep up with them so it can inform your work. As a teacher it is important because you want the current research to inform your teaching plus for my own interest. I’m also a learner as well as a teacher. I take pleasure in learning things, so it’s a pleasure to keep up with what’s going on. I put myself squarely in the number two category somewhat successful I wouldn’t say that I’m not obsessive about every day looking at every single thing out there to make sure that I’ve covered every possible advance currently in physics, but I make an effort to do so. 
I would say yes, it is important, but on the other hand I would personally choose number 2 Somewhat successful, I use a variety of resources because there is so much you have to do day-to-day that it is hard to find time to be completely on top of it. 
I mean, clearly, it’s important to know what's happening.
For one, it's just fun to know what's happening. But it's important because we're all doing sort of cutting-edge things and we need to know where we stand compared to others. If something has been done, we should know about it and not do the same thing again.
Yeah. So, this is a no brainer. Yeah. 
Yup. That's extremely important. And what are the barriers? I mean, time - don’t know what other barriers…
I don’t how it was, you know, 20 years ago... 
I can tell you!
or probably even before that but the numbers of papers of papers that come out, it’s impossible to know everything.  
Faster than the speed of light!  I was looking at this a while ago, and I think that by now, one week of Phys Rev Letters is the entire year of the Physical Review in early 20th century. 
there's just been this huge proliferation of journals.
Many, many years ago I went out with a girl whose father was a physicist. So, this is billions of years ago. But when he was young - which he wasn't even at that time - he said, he felt he really knew everything that was going on in physics. He didn't know the details - he didn't know all the details of the math - but the literature was such that he felt he knew everything in all fields of physics.
He had a good overview of everything that was being done. And we're so far from that now 
obviously I'm far from that, but when I was at grad school every week or two, I would go to the library and I would read the title of every paper in Physical Review Letters and then decide which ones I wanted to read the abstracts of, and then which ones I wanted to read in full.   
By the time I came here as a professor, every week or four, I would go to the new journals corner of the library and I would read the titles of the Phys Rev Letters in my field, and then skim through Condensed Matter for something that might be related. And by now, unless something sends me to the webpage or I hear about a particular article, I don't even routinely look at Physical Review Letters.
And I mean, you know, one problem is just the overall explosion of material and the reduction of my time. But another one, as P32 said before, is the proliferation of different journals. At least then I knew that the most important papers I needed to see were going to be in Phys Rev Letters, or maybe in Phys Rev A or maybe the Journal of the Optical Society, and I could stop there.  And now, even for the stuff that isn't going to find a prestigious home, instead of Phys Rev A, there are six other places people could send them that they feel sound a little better. And for the stuff that used to always be in Phys Rev Letters - or it could be in Nature, in Nature Physics or Nature Communications, or Science or Science Advances - there's no way I'm going to keep on top of all of them.
Yeah, obviously laughter. The answer is yes. I mean, to a degree, you could be obsessive about it.
So, for me, my strategy as a PhD student is to find not only research in one field, I also want to find other areas to apply my knowledge. So, I also try to keep updated about the major findings in physics and especially in biophysics and to find the places where I can apply my knowledge. And especially about my own research, as I told you, I do RSS feeds so when I have a bit of time and go and use the RSS feed app and try to go to the newest articles and look at their titles to find whether or not they are related to my field, my skills for example, if there are new techniques, maybe I read their abstracts, or if it is related to my own research about chromosomes I also go over that. So, I try to stay up to date, but not daily, maybe two or three times a month I check the RSS feeds. And I believe that it's good because it's worked for me, I'm somewhat up to date, but I don't know - because for the feeds, you need to select journals - I don't know whether the journals are the main journals in biophysics or not.
I would say it's important, yeah. And I think, I don't know how relevant this is because, again, I'm pulling more from my bio background, but I think that's just more, like an obvious difference between me and some other people in the lab like I was saying. So, I'm comparing myself to people I work with. But yeah, I think it is important to keep up to date.
The answer is unequivocally yes. Things are changing and developing all the time, and you can’t really, well it’s impossible to stay abreast of every development, but key papers in your field you still need to be aware of them, almost as soon as they come out, so it’s certainly very important. Do I feel that I’ve been successful with keeping up with physics information? I would say somewhat, maybe completely successful is always a tough one because there seems to be both more information coming out and more places to look for it, information sometimes comes out on the web, through Twitter and places like that, where we never would have seen it appear in the first time before. So, I would say overall successful, but perhaps increasingly, it’s becoming increasing difficult to do that even though more sources of information are available.
No. Yesterday I was looking at the number of the journals, physics journals where I can sort of get that knowledge I need it's more than 30, 40. Starting  with, I don't know,  Nature, Science, Journal of Physics,  Physics Teacher, when it comes to teaching physics and physics education. 
No, I don’t use alerts to journals to get tables of contents … Sometimes I browse, yes.
Yes, it's important and no, I'm not fully successful because it's not actually possible anymore to keep up. There's just too much stuff. And how you keep up to date is for me has changed because of that. As you said, we immediately recognize that its beyond our ability to read every arXiv paper, for example.  So how do we keep up to date? Personally, I have noticed that looking at what's in the news sometimes is easier because then I can get the headline and then go read the papers, see what people are discussing in the community, maybe on social media.
Sometimes social media and the news. So, it's both. Right. So, my point is I've broadened where I get my actual research information even. So, I don't of course, I don't stop at the news article to know the details because I don't trust that. And I know that's what's being now buzzy. And so, then I can go and look at that area. So that that's sort of like a filter process. And I know that's not ideal. I also realized because of course, the studies that don't make it in the news doesn't mean that they're bad. But you have to start somewhere. 
Yeah newsworthy to make my research newsworthy so that someone else will look at it, so I haven't done it explicitly for research, right? I've certainly increased my public profile a lot. That's been sort of it came accidentally through my TED thing. That became such a big platform. And then I realized the power of it. And then for sure, I put a lot of effort into writing that and realized that it does affect my research, too. But I didn't do it because I realized others were doing it. But in the end, I got the same kind of goal. 
Yes physicists promote their work through altimetric, YouTube, Mendeley, CiteULike... So now I am at a point where every time I do some research that I think is newsworthy, either tell the research office. Or I know people in the news these days. Specifically. So, I can reach out to them if I want to.  I really want to be honest, though, maybe this is also a gender thing. It'll make you feel comfortable because you're like, oh, I'm overselling. So, I my personal approach has always been to you know, I do get invited to do a lot of talks and write and talk about my own research. And I put it out and then some. You know, like BBC will contact me. And then I talk about general stuff. So more about having a profile rather than my research. I have kind of a broad profile thing. I don’t really feel comfortable selling about my own personal research. I mean I'm much more comfortable talking about the whole field right now. This is exciting and selling the whole thing.
One barrier is just being busy. I can’t think of any other barriers. The amount of information available is so great… there are so many channels through which one can get information. There’s so many online journals the library is important there, we subscribe to many journals so it is easy to get access to journals, there are other technical journals, more generalist periodicals including newspaper sites, there are newspapers that have science columns, there are blogs, all kinds of… after you have done this for a few years you zero in on reputable sources for their content. With a little bit of experience, you can locate good sources of information. 
I would say yes. There are so many journals…
…time is defiantly an issue, and then also just the fact that information is published in so many different places that it’s hard to keep track of all the different sources where people might publish.
I would say yes. There are so many journals…
Students, first of all, may just be more honest
They hold themselves to higher standards, we’ve just gotten used to it.
But I think also, they're busier trying to get the background, and reading a new paper is harder work for them. I can see a new paper and skim the abstract and look at the figures and I think I basically know what they did. But the student may have to spend four hours reading through it, or 12 hours, I don’t know. 
they may also have higher standards. 
I mean there is a point when you just realize “this is the stuff I can keep up with and the rest of the world, I am not going to know about”.  The younger you are in terms of your education, the more ambitious you are in terms of, “oh, I should know that I'm a physicist, I should know about all physics”.
But certainly, there is what P31 said, which is the more you learn, the faster you read. 
Yeah 
I think all of us never seem to have enough time, and that's probably a universal
except for the last comment. Everything is. 
Yeah. The last guy, you know.
Yeah. Google Scholar notifications – I’ve never done that.  I guess that must be what I have set up so that when people cite my own work, I see it. So at least hopefully I don't miss important things that criticize or comment on us, but I don't consider that a complete way of keeping up to date and otherwise I've never done useful notifications like that.
I check arXiv and embarrassingly enough, Facebook has become a primary source. When my network of friends gets excited about something someone posted. And even if that's a popular article, that's fine. Eventually from the popular article, I find a way to the research article. If I actually care.
But then the other cheat for professors is letting other people do the reading for you. I find things that in an ideal world, I would read, and then I try to see whether I could convince one of my students to read it. But if that resonates, then we will end up discussing it later and then I finally learn about it.
I would say I'm doing well considering the size of the challenge. And I never seem to have enough time. 
Yeah
that's right. Yeah. 
I do tend to expect my students to themselves keep on top of the stuff that's specifically related to their projects, and I rely on them to hunt up the papers 
There's kind of a horizon issue where, very often we'll be talking about something and my students will say, “well, it's like what so-and-so did four years ago”, and I'll realize – I just missed that. But then we'll be talking about something else and I'll say, “well, that's what so-and-so did 25 years ago”. We each have our own areas and periods where we’re better 
students naturally, I think, tend to focus more specifically on things that are really directly related to what they're doing. So, it's a tighter focus, maybe than like what people like us have when we look at the literature.
I mean if you spent twenty minutes reading each thirty papers a day, that's more hours than there are in the day. So, you know, it's the problem of finding the right balance, right? I certainly felt that I was more up to date when I was on sabbatical, I had time to read papers instead of skim titles and abstracts. So, I think, at least in my experience, is that we try to do as much as we can give the time, but you can't let it take over. And that's the fundamental barrier. Time to read, it takes a long time and even fifteen minutes per day is actually a significant chunk of your day. So, you have to, if you're lucky, you read one article per day on average. Not that I do it daily, but that's probably realistic.
There are some journals that I found articles in that are very similar to my research, but I don't have any idea about the importance of journal and the authors, so I need to check both. So, I go to Google Scholar and search the authors, the journals to learn more about them.
Yeah, I think two things come to mind. For example, sometimes we, at least when I'm doing an actual literature search, rather than through the news or whatever, not having access to a lot of recent papers is annoying, so I find that to be a barrier. So, I've tried to look through some more physics related databases and I felt like I just didn't have access to things that were relevant, so that was a little frustrating. And there's also, I think what actually is a barrier is having the amount of databases or ways that you can search for something, can actually be a barrier just because I'm not going to sit down and go through ten different databases to ensure I actually have all of the relevant current information. Although, like, you know, that would be the best way to, if that's the best way to do it, right? Just the idea of time and effort that would be put in might be too much, is how I think about it. Even though Google Scholar pulls through a lot of databases so that it should, in my mind, remove that kind of barrier, I don't know if it does it that well. 
I would say it’s more the, fragmenting is maybe the wrong word, but it used to be, so you know, in the past things would come out when we published in journals and you could just read that, I actually remember that time. Since then, you know things come out electronically online, but you still sort of know where to look for that. There are repositories I mean the journals themselves obviously host repositories of their articles, but there are also pre-print servers and other places where one looks for breaking information. Fairly recently, now things are coming out on Twitter and various places on the Internet. You might find somebody tweeting from a conference a snapshot of a slide which is just being presented. And so, you know, staying absolutely up to date with the most current stuff is becoming more difficult, maybe it’s easier for sort of the more well informed, it’s harder to be aware of the very freshest results as soon as they come out.
I guess some techniques, techniques which make it automatically notify me. Because I used to have those techniques with a Research database, I forgot its name.  It used to send me every week four or five articles regarding the topics which I was working. Well it used to send me every week four or five articles. Right up to date articles. I was so happy. Right now, I should kind of find those techniques because I'm talking about two years ago.
Yes four or five articles per week is sufficient to keep up to date, because I am thinking that some of them are going to be review articles, no more than four or five. No, I can't digest, I can’t process the data.  
I believe that there was something and I was thinking about asking you about curating articles that are retrieved would be very helpful.
I am talking about the general ones alerts. The specific ones table of contents alerts} I can find for myself. I want the general ones. 
Laughter You’re asking me a strange question about how students may feel, and I have no idea how they may feel about this. I’m not sure if this has any relevance to the question, but I know that students sometimes have difficulty navigating information because there is so much out there… If we are talking about graduate students, postdocs… I think that the busyness gets to them that much greater, because they are often working on courses, attempting to be research intensive, writing their thesis, everything… I would say maybe busyness…  
Yes, that’s fair to say that the amount of information, how fast it comes, and the busyness of everyday life gets in the way of keeping up to date with what one would want to be? I would say that I don’t know for sure. When I speak to graduate students in our department, I can’t be sure.   
I’m not sure if you mean successful of if they… don’t place as much priority on it… that’s my guess, I’m sure they can be as successful, but I think they don’t do as much literature searching generally for some reason, I don’t exactly know why. 
Yes, it’s possible that is specific to physics cause it is kind of like… you’re working with somebody… not reinventing the world… usually a graduate student or postdoc is always working with somebody… does this make sense? but I think that a lot of the students just focus so much on their experiment getting it to work that they often don’t look at the big picture, especially beginning students, it’s not just part of what they students do.
Responding to a comment about level of confidence in the research field I was going to say the same thing, that it's just they don't, it takes a long time to absorb the status of the field, to know what is important, what isn't important, how things fit together. I mean, I'm still learning, right, after thirty plus years. And, so, as you gain more knowledge of the field as a whole and of individual researchers, when I scan these thirty articles, I can do it relatively quickly. I know, oh that person does good work, or this sounds exciting, this sounds like something I've already seen before, and so you can do that processing quite quickly. Whereas, I see my own students, they sometimes seize on, let's just say articles I wouldn't necessarily take too seriously because I think they're flawed, but they don't have enough experience often to do that judgement. And so, it's just getting up to speed, I guess. Just takes time, I think. I don't think the barriers are in the technology or the journals themselves, I think they're just fundamental. The field is very confusing, and when you come into a new area, there's a vast amount of literature you haven't read, and it just takes time to absorb it and start to put the jigsaw puzzle pieces together. 
In my opinion, the reason why many students don’t know what articles to read is related to their level of confidence and their knowledge of the research field. 
Responding to a comment about the field being very confusing Nowadays, when fields are interdisciplinary so for example, in my own research, same concepts have different names. So, for me to read the articles and understand them, I need to know these names refer to the same something. It takes some time to realize this. It takes time for graduate students to understand the concepts built by the established researchers. Not because of their fundamental knowledge, largely since they cannot see the broader picture and how different things fit together. 
I would feel like it's probably a difference of process. Like how I was saying that how you have to go through like ten different databases or go to a specific site for whatever, I feel like faculty probably already have a process that they've established that probably works the best for them and that's why they believe they're getting the most relevant information out of it. Students don't necessarily have that based on their undergrad or previous backgrounds, I feel like we don't necessarily, always teach those practices and protocols, so I can see why students don't think that they're successful sometimes. I feel like it could also just be that faculty, once you're established, you kind of, already have just in general greater base knowledge and so, if you have that I can see maybe thinking that you kind of know a little bit more about current things than maybe you might, is my guess. Whether or not that's true, I don't know. But if you have a stronger base knowledge that might be helpful, it might inform your opinion on that.
I can think of two things which probably play into this. One is experience. So even though students are very tech savvy in some sense and plugged in more maybe than older faculty members they don’t necessarily know the right places to look or the places where you can sort of efficiently learn about things without having to wade through a lot of other material. The second one is that I think is that probably the perception of being well informed hinges a little bit on being able to understand the results as they come out and so I can easily see students who are reasonably well informed might feel that they’re perhaps not so much because they don’t understand the implications of what of what they’re sort reading about. And so that’s my guess for what it’s worth.
I believe they students did have the knowledge to have to perform the research, I believe. I think they don't have skills to perform those of research. Maybe they have heard about something that they should do but they don’t have it all. You get some image about the library work. That’s why I was thinking, afterwards, when you have time you could meet with some of those students. 
So, that's a barrier. Somebody should teach them.  You used to teach them.  
We need that class for a librarian to instruct on why students don’t know what they don’t know. Yeah. Somebody should walk them through the process because they can’t do it by themselves  That's the reason they are in at the university otherwise they could get all the information in a distance from somewhere else so that students know really what they’re missing or even what’s out there.
There is a deficiency in physics education when compared to chemistry …but they students at least more specific chemicals and information.
That's what they should be doing… revamping physics courses similar to biology and chemistry by adding more information literacy into first year and then having a different type of second year experience …
Like chemistry literacy, physics should look at a first-year class specifically to incorporate information literacy, but someone has to mount it, teach it, and do a lot of things to make this happen It's not something these students can come up with by themselves. 
Well, they are starting out so and physics is, as we all know, very technically demanding. So, I think that is that. It's partially an imposter syndrome that never goes away. You never feel ready or you never feel like you're the expert. Then when you start off, it's much more because, of course, you don't have the dignity and you don't have the broader perspective or any of that. Plus, there's a lot more information out there, right. And much more overwhelming when you're young and starting out now than when we were given, whatever, five papers by our two professors.
Right speaking about the role of peer reviewers. And you know that they're as overworked and overwhelmed and don’t have a perspective on the field either. Yeah. So, you know it must be a less low-quality review.  There is no way you can have a really, perfect review unless you got lucky enough by that one person who is going to really give it their all. 
Well the process of peer review already has changed it.  Journals are trying to recognize that. You know, good reviewers and Publons. So, you get that kind of credit as well. But I think that those are, I'd say Band-Aid kind of fix the problem that is fundamentally unsolvable. You cannot possibly have an ideal matching of all the papers at the level you need. I'd love to get papers as well, which is only in my area. I'd love to review them because I'd be interested in that. 
Yeah peer review, that's not happening. Does that matching system doesn't exist? Maybe we need a whole new sort of A.I. based learning system to match that.
Maybe. Maybe it would be interesting to see how peer review changes in the future.
Absolutely …they resonate with what I hear. There’s so much pressure nowadays to produce new results that it’s kind of damaging to the whole scientific enterprise because it pushes people to work on problems where they are pretty sure they can get a result as opposed perhaps to working on more significant or deeper or challenging problems. If you don’t get any results after a while, then you risk losing your grant… It’s the same for graduate students as well to produce weekly results… The whole comment about “we avoid too much deep reading” is troubling, because one loses one’s historical sense, context, and one loses institutional memory. Things tend to get rediscovered, forgotten and then rediscovered, and there is not enough effort put into verifying work that has been done. I know this is especially true in life sciences. Name has written about this identifying that most published research is wrong, for example when dealing with statistical problems, problems of statistical analysis, replication problems, etc. it’s maybe not as prevalent in physics, but it may be there too. 
One does, (I’m doing well, but only after considering the size of the challenge) meaning that given how much information there is out there I’m doing reasonable well, but I know that I’m not completely on top of everything… it seems like an impossible task to be so… I do like to use Google scholar on occasions and check the arXiv and again, not as regularly as I probably should.
Well, you feel with totally not quite on top of everything in the back of your mind that you could always be missing something, so generally, I try before I start to start a student on a new project, do a thorough literature search, and try to make sure that what we are working on isn’t something that has already been done… and it goes back to what we were saying… I can’t really trust the students to do the extremely thorough literature review, some are better than others, so I try to do it myself…
I think I feel more disappointed rather than frustrated, overwhelmed, sad with the tension of not keeping up to date when you are working on something and then suddenly something appears. I don’t stress out over the fact that there could be something out there that I’m missing, but on the other hand I’ve kind of learned to not work on something that… I try to avoid working on something that is extremely popular… in a smaller university it’s hard to compete with a lot of the bigger labs… My students need more time to get a result out that one may be able to put out at a large national lab and so I would say that is my main worry when working on a project then someone publishes it before we do. 
okay. For me, definitely talking to colleagues is a good place. I think three and six are kind of connected for me. So, I use a news feed to read both journals and arXiv and that's sort of my main source. It’s the biggest source. I just go through my newsfeed and get arXiv updates, which are the most important thing and then a few journals that I chose to follow.
yeah, I don't use six as much as the younger people probably do
I mean, attend conferences - obviously that's a big way of making sure one doesn't miss things, but it just provides pointers, like you come back from a conference and know there is this thing I need to learn about. 
Conversing with colleagues in person by email, phone, or if I go visit somewhere, or someone visits here, then I learn about what they are doing and so forth. But otherwise, email or phone - it has to be about a topic that's already in our minds. So, I still need to have gotten that pointer or someone has to reach out and say, “we have an idea we could collaborate on”. Usually that starts face-to-face though, not over the phone. 
And when I open my browser, it shows the latest articles on the arXiv. That's just the default thing that will pop up on my computer screen. So, its kind of forces me to at least procrastinate by browsing it.  And journals - like I said, I used to do it regularly, but I don't even know which one I would do anymore - so periodically, I'll go through the recent articles on something - usually PRL or PRX or something like that.
I think more often than not, it's because I'm already looking up something else and then it strikes me, “oh while I'm here... Let me see what else is in this journal...”
I think this one  there is a huge…, the long one here is the one that most closely describes my experience, and probably other people's as well. As I said before, it's largely just time, right? So, being efficient is about filtering, basically. And I don't like Google Scholar because it's full of rubbish, so I don't use it. This NASA ADS has similar services but it's a much cleaner database, it only has one copy of every paper, and not multiple versions of the same thing. We use a variant of that that is a lot cleaner and less noisy, for notifications of who has cited your article, articles by your favorite author, all this kind of stuff, in case you missed them on arXiv. But, for me anyway, I try to do arXiv first and that stuff is just back up. I'll just do arXiv by eye, aside from filtering by subject, some subfield from your perspective. 
Responding to a comment about lack of teaching or instruction on how to keep up with information for grad students Um, it's a hard thing for the reasons I said, so I try to, you know, when I teach my grad course, a grad cosmology course, one of the assignments in that course is to, you know, survey some contentious topic in the literature, and they are supposed to read some opposing papers, and come to some conclusions. Write a small, sort of mini review, if you like. And I do give them some advice on how you identify, um, how do you figure out what the important papers are. And usually the advice I give them, I kind of hesitate to this, but it's the most efficient, is to identify some seminal papers in the field. Once you've started with that then you can build a tree by find other papers that have cited those, then, frankly, sorting them by citations is one way. I dislike it because citations have many flaws, but it is a way of identifying what people are talking about anyway. And that makes it less likely that they identify some, you know, frankly obscure paper which isn't too relevant. Now they don't all apply that advice successfully, but that's the advice I try to give them, at least to get started. I also tell them, don't look at Wikipedia because it's full of crap. At least when I look at the Wikipedia articles in my area, they are rubbish and very misleading I would say. That's the kind of training that they get, I guess. And by doing these kinds of papers, which they also have to do in a few grad courses, they hopefully learn a few times, and learn to become more efficient. It is important because you have limited time to read papers, it is important that you try to identify the right ones to invest your time in, and that's the hard part. 
Responding to a comment about research coming from the discussion with others That's exactly why we have a journal club. They also learn the informal way science is done, when you go past a paper and someone says that guy's an idiot, that your reputation is also important. But you don’t' know the reputation of people until you've read a bunch of their articles.
Responding to a comment about communicating with researchers to ask for help Also, your supervisor should be giving you some advice early on. So, it should be an iterative thing. You should be saying in a meeting I want to do this and that's the point where he says, no, no, so-and-so has already done this. You can reproduce it, which is often a useful exercise just to see if you get the same answer, right? But I find all students don't know the literature as much as we would like them to, but since it's almost universally the case, maybe our expectations are too high?  
I agree that the time and the skills that graduate students need is important. I try to be up to date and learn how to be up to date myself. There was no teaching or instructing about that. But it was a matter of experience that I realized I need to do this. To learn that which resource is a better resource, is more reliable, more related to my field. Most professors and the grads have many things to do so It is difficult for them to be up to date. For me, if I can keep track of several main related articles, related to my field, I will be happy, with that. 
For me, no  there hasn’t been teaching or instruction on how to keep up with information from/for grad students Because in my office I'm alone, and I don't have a collaborator. So, for me, my personal experience is that I learn on my own, but even when we gather with other grad students, we try just to talk about, well, anything except physics, because we want to not stress out. Many grad students have high inertia, they cannot leave their desk and come meet with others. I know that for example, in the astrophysics groups, I see them that they are very communicative with each other, I don't know if they also communicate on their research or not. But in my field, in my department, no, I'm alone.
Responding to a comment about grad students finding papers I want to add something to that, if you want to make promising research, you need to communicate with others, and for grad students it is more important to communicate with others in their field or similar fields because it can help them to go faster. Historically, we can see that many scientists, that their research comes from the discussion with others.  
Responding to a comment not knowing someone's reputation until you've read their articles Just one point that my supervisor told me that was, uh, I did some research and went to his office and told him that this was my research and I spent a lot of time to come to this conclusion, and he asked me why I did that. If something is done before you, you need to use that, and keep on top of that. I told him I didn't know that there was something done on this. That day I realized that it's better sometimes to communicate with other grad students or past researchers, and ask them to provide me with some, for example a piece of code, some raw data, some insight about how to analyze something. It can really help you.
Responding to a comment about the proxy I realized that, in engineering that they have a VPN to install on your computer to connect to the library database.
I think I like, well, not like, but resonate with the first one about considering the size of the challenge. And then also the one about, the chunky comment about the huge number of publications and how there's so many, if you're a student, or a researcher in any aspect, there's a lot of pressure for any sort of results rather than keeping up with research. Because even as I'm thinking about other people I know who are doing their Masters it's a little bit strange because I feel like you're told to do a big lit review or lit search at the beginning so you have this basis of knowledge, but if your masters is two years and your PhD is four years then it needs to be more constant with that. And maybe if there's a way to make that, a lit search more of a, you know sometimes you do a lit search and don't really find anything, if there was a way to maybe make it into a result so to speak, it would be useful? I don't know if there's a process for that already somewhere else, I don't really know about it. I don't know if I'm necessarily doing well in terms of keeping up to date, like I kind of said, but I, definitely I agree that the amount of information is really daunting that is out there, and, like I said, there's a few barriers to access to that information, so you can try and be positive and say you might be doing ok.  
Yeah, a number of these I sort of could have answered perhaps. I’m doing well but only after considering the size of the challenge. I never seem to have enough time. And there’s a huge number of publications but I have little or no time to read them. So, it’s taken some years and it’s something which has to sort of continuously develop but I think I sort of have a strategy for keeping up with at least the bulk of the most recent results as they come out. At the same time, I would say that I would agree with the statements that one doesn’t really have the time to delve into them in great depth. So one considers oneself informed if one’s read the abstract of a paper which is discussing it, which is not really the same thing as being well informed but one is at least sort of aware that some sort of development has taken place and maybe one has an outline of the gist of the results. So, I would say that it’s proven at least relatively easy for me to stay informed of the developments in my field.  And my subfield is relatively small, I actually study asteroids in our solar system which has you know, there’s an active community, but it’s not, it’s not gigantic so there’s only, you know, a limited number of papers that come out every day that we might want to at least glance at. So, it’s not too bad. In terms of trying to read, you couldn’t possibly read every paper which comes out which is relevant to my field because you literally spend more than a day reading all the papers which come out in a day. So, there’s sort of a balance that needs to be struck there and I’m somewhere between successful and moderately successful, I guess. Where the criteria there may not be very stringent for success.
I think I never seemed to have enough time. That's so that's why I would love to have more time. Yeah. And it's by year by of limit limiting factor when you do. I had before I had more time. I was enjoying.  I should put all a bit more effort in order to make more time to read through the article which I have an interest. 
I think that finding articles and finding the time to read them in depth are equally barriers to staying up to date. Both. If it would be easier to find a nice blog.
Wow. I'm not quite there. I'd say I'm doing well.  I'm doing OK. Doing OK. OK. As in I don't miss out on the big, big stuff. Exactly. Yeah, this is true for me because I don't consider that I don't put effort into it. I just yes, I don't have the time. Therefore, I manage it through my team, for example. They are partially responsible for bringing that information forward. So that so to me, it's more about me. I don't put effort because I can allocate it right and delegate that.
Oh, yeah, I have no time to browse.
Yeah, right. I mean, I'm not focusing on a particular paper when I have a student. Then I’ll, of course, dig into that.  One particular question. Then I will do that. Search myself. And then talk to my student about it.
So, I'm at a point where I don't do the activities of search myself anyway rather skimming or scanning than reading in depth. Students do that, right? I’m already at a management level so reading in-depth for me doesn't count as much, let's put it that way. So, in that sense, no, I don't do much. I do sometimes when I have a student who is stuck or we both are puzzled or when it's a good problem.  The reason that I don't read in depth is not because - it’s not only because I don't have time. It’s also because that's not the level of my research role anymore.
Currently, I would say that number one is I (search scholarly databases). When I first started as a physicist I did number three (browse through a well…) very regularly, but now with a number of databases you don’t really need to… as a grad student I would regularly go to the library and browse through the most current volumes of the various journals and look for interesting things but now you can do it by the database.
For myself, I would tick off, I would tick all of them except for number 3 browse through a well-defined number of journals…, because, as I said before, we don't actually look at the journals anymore. Certainly, I haven't looked at a physical journal in like twenty years, I don't think. And even the electronic, I don't go to their home page, and scan it for articles, I just look on arXiv.                   
No, not really when looking on arXiv and would want to see the final published version. Well, I mean, I tell the students, once they get to the, for a first read it's not critical. And then of course, when it comes to writing their paper and they're using that paper in detail for comparison with their results or whatever, then I do tell them don't go to the arXiv version at that stage. Try to find the final published version, but most of them don't. They use arXiv because it's easy to access, and to be honest, redacted proxy is a pain in the butt. It would be much easier if we could just use redacted, not remember your redacted, and all that stuff.
Responding to a comment about VPN Yeah, lots of stuff you need the VPN for, it's not only in engineering, you can use the VPN here, just Google redacted. But then sometimes you still need to log in with redacted instead of redacted, which is a pain. So that's why students use the arXiv, because they can access it easily when they're working at home or somewhere. At least the NASA ADS does provide a link to both the arXiv version and the journal article if it's been published, so you can choose, but often it's paywalled because of this issue. So, I agree with all of these except for number 3.  
The second one, by phone or email and in person. I've never done it, maybe because I'm alone. But for the fifth one, attending conferences, is also very high here. But for me, I never use this option, so it surprised me. But the others are, I also use them. 
The database one I feel is the most obvious search scholarly databases. I'm interested in the idea of talking with people about research is really high up there, but maybe that's more reflective of faculty then, actually no, I feel like grad students may also, I mean we do talk a lot in the lab about things that we're finding. So yeah, ok, maybe I'm not as surprised as I initially thought. Personally, I don't follow any specific journals, I can see how some people would though. I'm not really surprised by the other ones. I'm also not surprised that they are kind of lower. Oh, these are numbered. Yeah, ok, so the conference is higher up than internet resources, ok that makes more sense. Yeah, I'm not really surprised by any of this, I guess. Even like social media, in our lab we just started a Twitter because other labs have Twitters and so, ok, now we're on Twitter laughter. And some people do post, and like ResearchGate and stuff like that, people do post an abstract or what have you. So, I can see that being a little bit relevant. 
I would say that most of them do to some extent, and I get some information from each of them. Certainly, I regularly search scholarly databases but that is mostly in the process of doing research rather than solely as a means of staying informed. So, I rarely spend time searching scholarly databases purely for the purpose of finding out what’s new, but one does frequently do that as part of a research project. I learn a lot by conversing with colleagues in person. My email as well you hear about what people are working on. I would say that’s a very, a very big one. It’s got browsing through, I don’t spend a lot of time browsing through journals. But I do have, the main way I learn about things, I guess, is that I have a, is through the arXiv database where you can put in some search terms you’re interested in and you get a daily email which indicates some papers that have come out on this topic. 
Yeah, so an alert. I don’t know if that counts as browsing or consulting or searching, but that’s probably the way I get, maybe the bulk of the information on new results. Conferences are also I would say a very important source of information at a deeper level. Results that you might be aware of from an alert, or something like that, usually don’t take shape in my mind until I’ve heard somebody talk about them and you can chat with the authors, and really, there’s a sort of a depth of knowledge, which is sort of associated with that, which I think is very important, even though maybe it’s not the first time that you’re aware of a result, that’s where you often in my mind I develop a real understanding of that result’s implications. Social media and other, I guess it’s hard to say, your social media inform relevant email listservs, which I guess arXiv might, might fall into. Certainly, there are some email discussion groups, which are very important for some timely comments, so in one part of asteroid research is that we’re always watching for the one that’s going to smack into the Earth. So, there’s kind of a very rapid response kind of email discussion group slash forum where a lot of information sort of gets disseminated very quickly there. So that’s sort of, you know, very preliminary stuff. 
Yeah these forums are mostly academics, it’s a broader community. So, there are a lot of academics in there. There’s also a fair number of amateur astronomers, though asteroid searching has often been for a long time the domain of larger telescopes. It’s getting to the point now, you know, the amateur astronomer with moderately deep pockets can buy some commercial telescope equipment off the shelf and actually contribute to this effort. So the community is sort of building you know at least for this that sort of aspect of it, there are actually members of the, I don’t want to say non-astronomical community, but people who are non-academics, people who don’t have PhDs, that are interested in astronomy and are sort of participating in that. That again is kind of maybe a specialized, I don’t imagine that most aspects of physics really have that kind of community or information passing system associated with it, but astronomy does. 
…the scholarly databases, databases first. Afterward, say, one or more articles then I a narrow it down.
So, I'm torn on answering this. I don't think I'm the typical person in this sense. Because, I think conferences are important because you get this overview of everything in the field. But I personally hate going to conferences. And we all know why. Because it’s a terrible environment for certain minority groups. So, it's never been fun for me. I I’m not making it a point to go, so why do I go? So that's why I don't go. But I realized the importance of it for getting that overview.  And if I choose not to go, it definitely undermines my own ability to have that perspective.
And I look at the conference presentation’s abstract things like this. 
So, I think that it's a great way to again scan to see what’s going on. 
But again, I'm torn. I don't like to send them students by themselves because they are unprepared for these environments too. It's very hard for me. I don't know where I stand on the whole thing. I think the whole system needs to be taken down and restarted in better ways. Well that's not going to happen. So, we're stuck with it. 
Probably because they are effective. Again, there is so much information out there, that if you speak to a person and have a conversation you can interact in a much richer way. You can ask questions and you can talk about what so-and-so is doing…
I think it is important to just about everybody. There is a stereotype of mathematicians just locked away in their office working on a problem, thinking very deeply and like all stereotypes there’s some truth to it, but even for mathematicians there’s a real need for human contact. I think we all have it, not just scientists, but every human has this need for personal face-to-face human contact…. even physicists. 
It is important to bounce ideas off each other and sometimes when you are conversing – somebody is working on something – you can come up with a collaboration. I haven’t attended as many conferences as I should or could, but I often found that… the key is talking to people. The papers presented there have already been published and you can get more information by reading the article generally. I found I get more from searching the databases than attending talks at conferences, but I do agree that if you can speak one-on-one with someone that it is definitely valuable. 
First of all, it's less painful than reading. You get notice of what it – like P32 says, it’s a pointer - you know, it's something you're going to have to track down and follow up on, but you at least got the pointer. 
It's also true that people are much better explaining things than they are writing about things. If you catch somebody who's done something and you get 10 minutes with them in a conversation, that's worth three or four hours reading their paper, regardless of how good a writer they are.  I mean, that's not a criticism of their writing style, it's just the nature of the communication. When you're talking to somebody, you can automatically give them visual feedback if you're not following something.
it’s also a filter. I mean, at the end of the day, there's just tons of stuff, so if someone tells me about a paper, then it's more likely to be an interesting paper than if I'm browsing randomly over yesterday's arXiv. 
right. But some of it I think could also be an erroneous filter. Psychologically, these are the things that work for us and that we remember, but it means that we're sorting by who we already know or what talk we happened to go to, or who happens to be engaging in the first five minutes of their talk. And that might be correlated with it be interesting research, but it also means we're missing out on some stuff.
But yeah, you turn to the journals and there’s at least a thousand articles and you don't know where to begin. Whereas at least to go to the conference, you hear a dozen things. So right there.
But also, I think it's a way of branching out beyond your own silo. You know, if something is happening that is not already what I tend to read about or tend to think about, but someone I know has gotten interested in it, then from them I learn, “hey, maybe look in this new direction”. There's no way it would've occurred to me on my own to do that by trying to browse journals.
I think it's just another form of filtering. You know, the hive mind, right? Often, I learn about papers that I wasn't aware of, not from speakers talking about their own work, but in the introduction or comparison they'll show a plot from somebody else and they'll say compared with the results from so-and-so. And oh, I didn't know that so-and-so did that, I better look that up. That's another source of information. That's pretty useful. Again, just by identifying what is relevant. 
I think that, as I mentioned before, that research and science come from communication with others. So, when you go to conferences or journal clubs, you communicate with others and you exchange ideas, and these ideas are based on some articles, and then you go back read those articles or find new articles related to that. Because you have a common language and you can trust that they have a deep knowledge of that research, you can easily trust that paper that he or she introduced you to.
Probably conversing with colleagues is just the simplicity of having the conversation, just reaching out to someone you already know and maybe has access. For example, even for me, the other research assistant in the lab, if we were to search the same thing, I already know our processes are different, so we might come up with different papers that we find then to talk about it, that's really useful, you don't have to repeat work, so to speak, especially with the different processes. I think the conferences, I think that's in terms of, attending a conference or a workshop is literally, that's kind of the whole point of the conference, right? Just to present and listen to other people's most current research for that year. Normally they have a yearly, they have some sort of cut off in terms of currency, right?  So yeah, it's very condensed, you can, most conferences that I know, or maybe not most, but a few of them have abstracts or even just titles available beforehand so you can already start off before getting there, you can have an idea of what you want to go to and then see that there. Also, I feel like it's harder to get, it is probably harder to get a paper published than get an abstract published at a conference, so the quantity of information that you can publish in a conference is easier, so I'm sure there's more information there, like little side projects that people do or detail work that doesn't fit in to a paper. 
Very important conversing with colleagues an attending conference.  You can't replace that's the channel of research through the communications with anything else. I believe, 100%.  That’s the only way to go to the next step.  
I think it is equally important to search scholarly databases, the Internet, and attend conferences, if not more important, just because the conference model is problematic for many groups. And at least with databases at least for now, it's at some level more inclusive just because there's not that barrier of all that experience at the conference.  At least you can go and read the paper without feeling bad about it.  So, in that sense, I think it's you know, we probably much more of a crutch for those who are not feeling so welcomed at conferences. For me, that would be an important piece to grow and develop and make a focus.

I don’t search scholarly databases unless you count the arXiv. I don’t use Google Scholar. I don’t have Google alerts. 
I look when I have a need to look. I don’t look regularly just to keep current. I’ve got other sources. So, I don’t generally look at the arXiv to keep current. 
the behavior I use when searching for information by authors, keywords, phrases, terms is Keywords… so if I am interested in something, for example, Bell’s Theorem in quantum mechanics, then if I’m looking for this, thinking about that, I’ll look for that and search using these keywords. It works for me, it’s the only thing I do. I don’t have anything to compare with that. Does it produce information that is valuable? Yes. I tend to be satisfied and find what I am looking for. 
What is it even - scholarly database. Like Web of Science? 
I just use Google. 
I pretty much do as well.
I’ve never really used a scholarly database to search through topics. For citations of a particular article, yeah...
Oh, I guess this might change. I'm not usually trying to learn about a completely new field. So, I guess on the rare occasion where our group is starting to do something that is really new for us, and I felt ignorant of, then there - I haven't myself, but I've asked my students to do exactly that. You know, like I know these two pioneering papers, but we've got to find out what happened in the 20 years since then, go and look up all the citations and let's start there for that particular kind of task.
Oh, sure. I do that. Except I do that on Google as well. 
I mean, Google Scholar just has everything.
okay. It doesn't have everything, but the amount of information is just huge. 
So, Google Scholar will tell you who cited these papers and which paper they cited recently. I have missed some things, but it's unavoidable
I actually don't find their organization as useful unless I'm just not using it right. If I really wanted to take some old paper from the 80s and see everyone who cited it, I do that on Inspec and I get things cited by journal and in chronological order, if that's what I ask for, or I can filter by journal…
And Google, I'm getting all this bullshit about conferences I couldn't care less about, or patents or whatever. In an order that some algorithm Google made up, that has nothing to do with what I would ask for. So, for something like that, I've never used Google Scholar.
It would be nice if it were better, but I don't know how to make it better. It's still inefficient, it's still not... You need somebody who can get inside your head and say, you know, sometimes the most efficient way is if I have a colleague in our department who is an expert in some other area and I say, it's much faster for me to go and bother him or her and say, so what's the latest in this area? Who has done the best work in such-and-such, on this problem? If they have a comprehensive knowledge on the field then they'll say oh you might want to check this, that, and the other thing. And that is more efficient often than using a search engine. Asking the experts, the computers are not experts yet, they don't really know what we're thinking when I say, oh yeah, I want to know more about quenching of galaxies, star formation in a cluster environment. I can't, Google cannot parse that and know really what I'm talking about. AI has only gone so far. It'll get there possibly.  
For me, there are two levels of knowledge I'm seeking for that, to advance my research. One of them is more skills or more fundamental, for that, journals or databases don't work for me. I need to find some books, or graduate level books to understand them and to incorporate these skills or this fundamental knowledge into my research. But, when I go to the frontline of discovery, then I use journals to know what they have done, to build up my research on top of that. For example, I completely changed my field from my master to my PhD. So, when I wanted to learn the tools and these kinds of skills, I had to talk with someone, he helped me to realize how to do that, how to apply these skills in my own research. I couldn't learn them any source on the Internet and it needed someone experienced to tell me that you can use this software, that software, that article, this chapter of this book, combine this together and you can find a solution to your problem.  
Responding to a comment about not caring about hierarchy of journals Maybe because we are in the information age, and many people communicate with each other, so the journal is not important if they know that the person who published that paper is high ranking. 
Responding to a comment about journal impact factors If you add also to that, the movement for open access papers. Those journals (the new-born open access journals) have low impact factors.
I think it depends on what part of the research you are at. So, databases, I feel like I actually don't, I haven't really attended a lot of conferences so that's probably why in my answers I'm mostly talking about the online research, because that's, I think what I would do most, other than talking to other people in the lab. So, what am I looking for? I guess, new papers that are relevant to our lab, in terms of like websites and internet resources, sometimes if something is a statistic it is easier to get from a website, rather than just trying to find a paper that specifically says that. For example, because we study biology the WHO website will have a lot of relevant information that, is just, they're already well established so why bother trying to find that in a paper? Yeah, I can see why they may be equally important, if you're finding statistics versus a method which is going to be more like a paper in a database.
browse periodically…
Interesting, if I had to identify the top three, I would say arXiv, then society and association databases like APS, and the third would be MathSciNet because I have a strong mathematical interest as well. 
I spend a limited or small amount of time looking for information in the context of keeping current or up to date knowing that there is a multitude of choices and I have a limited amount of time to search, evaluate, read and remain current … If it is the wider question of just in general searching for scholarly literature, I have an interest to, it doesn’t have to be about that, current, it could be historical information… and so I might choose any of these databases. 
Google Scholar and arXiv are database I use, I also use Web of Science, and PROLA, the other ones not really.  
Yes, CERN is what I meant by one of those indexing website, which I never use, but I know it exists.
there’s also NASA.  Are Inspec and Web of Science different? Or didn’t Web of Science just…
I had the impression that Web of Science just bought out Inspec.  We used to use Inspec and then one day I was told, now we use this website, and it was called Web of Science, Web of Knowledge first, maybe, I don't know.
I had never realized that Inspec still existed somewhere else and I was no longer looking at it
I use mostly archive Google Scholar, occasionally Web of Science, occasionally Inspec. 
yeah, I use arXiv and Google Scholar. I might have used the other ones once or twice
arXiv. Not even Google Scholar, Just Google. I use Google Scholar or Web of Science mostly if I’m searching to find a particular person or a particular citation. To stay up to date it’s arXiv, and to look for articles on a particular topic, it’s Google.
For me, I ticked off arXiv and NASA ADS, which I already mentioned, which comes under other. And I think I described those already. NASA ADS does a good job of having only one copy of every paper, and that's its main advantage, it's clean. And, it provides some nice tools, like you can see networks of authors and all sorts of whizzy stuff. It's actually a very good system, way better than Google. I don't know what Web of Science these days does, but we don't need it for anything anymore, but maybe in other fields that don't have their own in-house system, it might provide some extra value added, at least for having a clean database. It doesn't even store the arXiv, see the NASA ADS takes the arXiv paper first and it ingests it, and when it realizes the article has been published it links them up and it knows which arXiv is going with which journal paper. So, I don't know, I don't think, Web of Science ignores arXiv, right? So, you want to see a system which has both, the unpublished, and the published at the same time, if it's identified. But that's sort of my view on that.
Usually, for me, there are some, several journals that I search, that I know that most of the scientists in my field publish in them, and my research depends on these journals. I think it's also a competition between publishing companies, they have their own databases, so they are confusing the researchers, mostly the grad students because the graduates cannot really find out which journal or article is good for their own research. For me, I have a strategy to find papers, I usually start with, if I have five or four main papers I read their references, and try to find their common references, and then I go to read those references, and I check some citations to those references. And this way I try to connect the articles. And sometimes, after some experience, you realize there are five or six key scientists that publish the most articles that (or hundreds in some fields).
I really like Scopus, and it's so low on the list laughter. That's the one I like, and I'll do Google Scholar. Google Scholar is just like, honestly, it's quick in terms of, I think I use it more if I already have an idea of what sort of paper or what lab it's from, or that kind of thing. It's easier to find in Google Scholar. I don't necessarily think it's super rigorous. I'm pretty sure, you can correct me on this probably, but I'm pretty sure one of the reasons I tell myself I like Scopus is that it doesn't let anything that's not peer-reviewed in. I'm pretty sure Google Scholar doesn't do that. But maybe Scopus doesn't do that as well, I don't know. That's what I thought so that's why I started using it. And I also, I'm just more comfortable, I also tried using Web of Science but, but why did I go back to Scopus? I think just the filters I thought were either more intuitive or I thought I was getting more out of it for whatever reason. And those are the two that I sort of use the most and every once and a while Web of Science. 
Actually there’s one another one. Again, it’s more astronomy specific. NASA runs a database called ADS for Astronomy Data Service. It’s rather like sort of these other search engines but it only searches astronomy publications as opposed to physics publications.  But these choices, so Google Scholar is very good because it, it has a very broad reach, and the search function is relatively straightforward, you can sort of type almost freeform into the text box and it will try to find something. It’s not great, it misses things, which I find in other ways, but it is very flexible and it’s a great place to start. arXiv is important because it’s really the freshest results. Google Scholar usually actually includes a lot of the arXiv material in there quickly. It’s not very far behind. ArXiv is really where things appear in the first. If I had to say which one, I used most, in terms of searching the databases, it would probably be Google Scholar or this NASA ADS system which again seems to be a little bit more capable in terms of searching the astronomy literature. Google Scholar can miss things rather, rather frequently. But if I had to say which one, I used the most for searching the scholarly literature would be Google Scholar.  
arXiv, I don’t use much. but I tried not to touch you Google scholar, by the way.  Web of Science.
 Google Scholar It's too much. Without depth, it's too much information. We get too much information afterwards. I can't read all of them so it's too much when it comes to databases, they somehow, they put the filter and it makes it narrower. That’s the reason, as I said in the beginning, I tried not to touch Google Scholar at all. Other people like it - I don’t know. 
Yeah, INSPEC, SCOPUS. Just look at the filters and then I'll get some good stuff.  The first thing I try to find is review articles. 
Yes, arXiv and Google Scholar. Yes. I would say those are the top two for me. 
arXiv because it was the first and the most familiar. Google, because it's one of the easiest to use. And, because it was pretty, you know, also kind of established for quite a while. So, the ease of use in terms of what it adds, that arXiv doesn't where you can sort of collect your papers and does a lot of that automatically for you. It keeps track of your citations.  So those kinds of things. I think make Google important and you can look up people who are connected to you and find related research. So, it's very much easier to find papers that are related to your work because that's what it suggests. So, I have a feeling I mean , maybe this is a bias , but knowing that Google has basically cornered the market on search , my guess is that the search it does to find those papers for me ,  are going to be better than if it lets say academia does the search or some other such Website. Probably because they're search engines probably are not going to be as great as Google because they have that head start.  
Exactly, that there is overlap yet most papers are in Google Scholar and it’s ok to search Google Scholar as a physicist. 
I’m not sure. 
I like Google Scholar because it encompasses almost everything... You get a very good idea of what’s been published and, the nice thing about it is that it lets you know if you can see the article… It’s convenient. I don’t always know if it catches everything, but it’s usually my first go to because it is convenient, and it gives me the links to download the article… immediately. 
When searching Google Scholar using author’s names, keywords, phrases, property data, I search usually with keywords, especially when searching in an area that is new to me. If it an area I am already working on I see if a certain group has published anything, I put names in…  
whenever I'm searching for something, I search on Google, but I kind of grouped that with Google Scholar, and if Google is sort of not good enough, then I'll like type in Google Scholar. 
When I searched for a new topic and lots of random stuff comes up, it depends what I'm looking for. For instance, if it's teaching, I don't necessarily care about getting the most representative or the most complete thing. I want something that's readable and kind of correct. So, I'll open links at random and make sure that they look all right. If I never heard of the guy, I don't really care.
But if I'm looking to really learn about a research field, I want to figure out who the authority is, who the pioneers are. Maybe I already have some idea and maybe I don't. So, after the initial search, my filtering might be largely based on who the authors are and if I know who to be looking for. So, if I do a search on Google and immediately some of the articles that popped up are by the people that I expect I should be looking for, that's good. And if I do a Google search and I'm getting all sorts of articles by people I don't know anything about, I've got to find a plan B because I don't really know where to turn at that stage.
Google Scholar I dislike for the reasons I said. It's full of duplicates so I don't use it. It has no advantages over NASA's database. 
Usually I search Google to have a general idea, and then I try to use more advanced databases.
Yeah, I think just because it compiles everything, but your kind of must be a little careful with Google Scholar, I would think. Oh, also, it has that lovely citation thing, where you can just click the quote and you can just copy, there's like five different versions of citations, not every database has that. I don't know, that's kind of fun. Yeah, sometimes I'll find a paper and because I'm too lazy to write up APA or Vancouver or whatever, I'll just find it in Google Scholar and just copy it from there. 
I think it has become the, sort of, I wouldn’t want to say it’s the journal of record, but it is certainly a happening place. You go to arXiv because…
In the past active researchers used to circulate preprints to one another. If you heard about so-and-so had a preprint, you’d ask for a copy… horse and buggy, or whatever… so nowadays the arXiv serves this purpose. It bills itself as a preprint server and it really does serve that function. 
arXiv is used by people to get results out quickly, especially if they are having issues with a journal. This happened to us when we submitted something to a journal, and it was taking so long that in the meantime someone else had published something… somewhat similar so we decided to put our article in arXiv because it was taking too long to get it published. You can often get the most recent papers there and/or you can get a paper that has had trouble getting published in a journal that may have some relevant information in it. 
Much more important.
Yeah, I think that the one sort of huge advantage arXiv is - because it's divided by topics - if I search for a name, I’m probably going to get the right person.
arXiv is important more as a first look. As far as I know, in astrophysics, almost everything gets dumped on arXiv. It's extremely rare that I've discovered a paper that was never on arXiv and is actually a paper I want to reference. Maybe less than one percent of the time. Everything goes on arXiv, you just look at arXiv, it doesn't matter what journal it's published in. If I was Nature, I’d be very worried right now. Astronomers don't say oh, it's in Nature it must be a good paper. In fact, there's an in-joke that goes, just because it's in Nature doesn't mean it's wrong. We don't care about hierarchy of journals particularly. So that's the reason we don't go and look at the, at least I don't, and most people I've spoken to feel the same way.
Responding to a comment about journals not being important if you know about the person who published the paper Yeah, that's right. So, people in physics talk about impact factor of journals, those are gone in astronomy. You look at your own impact, personal impact factor, not, nobody cares about the impact factor of a journal really. 
Responding to a question about age of articles on arXiv I have articles, my own articles on arXiv going back to the mid-90s.
For me, I don't use arXiv but maybe, after this I will start to use it, but my question about arXiv, is about the articles that are fundamentals but old, for example mid-50s, mid-60s, are they also on arXiv or not? I need to look into that. 
I have not. Maybe it's more theoretical, maybe if I did a bit more optics in the lab, I would use it, but I don't. I don't think I've even heard anyone in the lab use it, but maybe they do. I think a lot of people use SPIE. 
No. I don’t use a citation management system and I believe that a majority of physicists would use LaTeX because they are writing their papers using LaTeX. It’s so easy to include it in your paper. I would think that it is the default standard…it is so easy to use. Saves time and is easy. 
Not really, I should… I’ve used LaTeX a little bit, but mostly I put articles I’m reading in LaTeX… I feel that I should use one, but I don’t use one other than when working on an individual project.
I think again why physicists feel about this, what’s stopping them from taking advantage of these tools it’s just the time to get that organized. I’ve thought about it, every time I’m writing out these references again and again, and looking them up again, I think then I should have them more readily accessible and organized. 
Not used to it, I guess. 
I don't use one of these things. You have to set it up. You have to figure out how it's going to work. You have to deal with it, that it changes and then you've got to get a new one and so on and so on. So, we have students who take care of citation management for us 
I'm more interested in it not on the citation of management part, but just to save articles to keep track of. I still have a filing cabinet from when I used to do this with paper. And that was important to me when I was a grad student. Now I should burn it and I haven't yet, but I haven't come up with a good way of doing that on computer 
save PDFs 
Right. Save them.
And I know a lot of people who just made very nice, well organized hierarchies on their own hard drives. I've been reduced to very often just saying, “oh, I can always just Google it again when I'm looking for it again”. But I have periodically said, this is stupid. I should be more organized and tried different things. But as P32 says, then they change or whatever. So, I have Papers and periodically I say, you know, I should be maintaining a good library, I’ll add stuff to Papers. It never worked as smoothly as I wanted it to, so there's an extra barrier. And for instance, you know, I find if I quickly just open 20 tabs of articles I want to read later, I'd like to just dump them into Papers. And if I don't want it to crash, I have to drag one of them in there, wait a while, drag the next one in there, wait a while. And instead I just end up having a lot of Safari windows on my computer waiting to be transferred. And then the fact is, I almost never use it to read those papers again.
I just, I know what I'm looking for. I go ahead and Google it. 
Yeah, so I use Mendeley and BibTeX and I'm pretty much in the same boat as P31, except it's incredibly useful to just have the reference written down because then I copy paste it when I need it in a paper, and then, because I'm already doing this, I can access Mendeley once in a while to say, “oh, there's this paper. I don't remember what it is…”. 
Yeah. Mendeley does well here. I did sign up for it once, I have to learn how to use it, and of course, every time we write papers, we use BibTeX. 
oh yeah, I use BibTeX in that context 
do you have every paper you've ever cited in one BibTeX library somewhere? Just in case?
no. 
So, I have everything in Mendeley, which generates BibTeX. Well, almost everything. Sometimes I’m lazy. 
I was being more careful about that back when I was really writing my own papers. So, I never, instituted sort of a group list to take over from it. And now since it’s the students writing the papers, they have their own Mendeley or EndNote or BibTex. We’ve never come up with any uniform way of doing it.  I don’t think they are all doing the same thing. Some happen to like Mendeley, some happen to like EndNote, someone else likes BibTeX…
yeah
I guess some of these had the problem for me - well, maybe now it's easier because you can just import it directly - that you had to fill in all these fields and I understand the idea that it could reformat it for, you know, AMA or ACS or whatever, but I always wanted my footnotes in the same format, and if I had already typed it into LaTeX, I just typed it into BibTeX as a formatted note, and a lot of these other things like EndNote, it really never seemed to work right, unless it had all of the fields correctly categorized. So, for things now, when it’s automatically generated, then that’s fine.
one thing that I do, because I do use Mendeley, but now arXiv has an option to direct download the BibTeX. And so now Mendeley is a lot less useful for me.
Okay. That would be extremely to be shown how citation management software works useful because I find that the citations Mendeley takes automatically have more mistakes than the ones that arXiv has. And so, downloading everything to Mendeley and going through the whole process, then getting it from Mendeley, then pasting it into my Overleaf document, and then making all the small changes because things are not correct… takes way longer than just going to arXiv, copy/pasting.
That was one of the other problems with Papers. It sometimes just wasn't good at matching things to like, yesterday's article.  It just wouldn't find the right reference. I thought it was supposed to get that automatically from the journal page, but frequently it just didn't seem to. And then if I wasn't using it at the university, I could never seem to get it to set up properly to log me in to “my access” (proxy) to use Web of Science.
So, I ended up finding it would take too many extra steps to get it to match things. And then I'd give up. 
But Mendeley, I should look up.
I don't understand it. I tell the students to use one, I don't know why you wouldn't. I'm a LaTeX user. 
Responding to a comment about being surprised that half of researchers don’t use citation management Yeah, I’m surprised. But I use LaTeX. And it's fine. 
There are a bunch of front ends interfaces. I use something called JabRef, which is a Java manager. But you can always go and just edit them if you want. These are just normal text files, which is a nice aspect. These other things are all closed systems so you can't hack them directly. But for searching them and stuff it is easier to use one of these managers. Mac users use something called BibDesk, a lot of people use that. There are a bunch of front ends to LaTeX, so it's more of a format than a system per se. 
Responding to a comment about not enough time to transfer LaTeX files to GitHub I like this JabRef thing, it's pretty good, it's a free Java program. Or if you use a Mac you can use BibDesk.
Commenting on JabRef or BibDesk that you don't like? That doesn't really work for you? A little bit clunky, but I've gotten used to it so, I know how to use it now. Systems like Papers are slicker, but they're paid, and they don't offer much more to justify the price. In my view.
Responding to a comment about using TeX Overleaf has taken over for us in the last year here. Boom, everything is on Overleaf now, so that's a big change. I'm anticipating the next part here, it's becoming only loosely connected to the questions here, but I was just thinking, in the last year the number of Overleaf papers has gone from one per year to ten or twenty that I'm collaborating on, so that's probably the newest thing that's happening. We've always used LaTeX for everything, but Overleaf, there used to be two, there's Overleaf and Share LaTeX, and there was a third company, and now it's all sort of condensed to Overleaf. And so, it gets that network affect, right, where once everybody is on the same system then its multiples. 
Responding to a question about JabRef and Overleaf I haven't written my own paper in a while, so it's the students writing their own. bibs, and I don't know how they do them. For me it works because at least my, I think we pay for Overleaf, so I think we get the feature where it can sync to your Dropbox. And if it syncs to your Dropbox you can do whatever you want locally. JabRef is not built into it but if you edit it that way then it should update, in theory. So, it should be compatible, but I haven't tried it myself. In practice the students are writing most of it and I'm just making minor edits so it's easier to do it in Overleaf. But if I was writing it myself, I would be editing locally.
Responding to a comment about using Dropbox instead of OneDrive Yes, I use Dropbox, I even pay for it. It's worth it, the OneDrive is not as nice, I find. 
Any citation management system has its own learning curve. Generally, at first, it takes a long time to organize your papers, but when you get on track and have some algorithms for organizing papers with a citation management tool then it should be very easy to do. I’m surprised that half of them don't use one.
Responding to a comment about using LaTeX Me too. Even with LaTeX I try to use keywords to organize, at least top level. There are some of them, for me, are fundamental, some of them I need to read in greater detail, some of them I have already read, and I comment on them. So, I try to arrange them this way.
Responding to a question How do you interface with these files? For me I have them in one file, and in that file, I have several folders for different research areas. But all my articles citation data are in one LaTeX files. I manually version this main LaTeX file so I many different versions of my LaTeX file. But I want to move the LaTeX files to GitHub. GitHub is a version controller, so it can update it itself, so if you have some problems, or if you delete it by mistake you have access to that on GitHub. But it takes some time and I don't have enough time to learn or to combine all this together.  
Responding to a comment about BibDesk Yes, I use BibDesk, exactly, it's very good, it's open source.  
Responding to a question about JabRef or BibDesk that works/doesn’t work for you BibDesk is very good. I do whatever I want with BibDesk, I can organize my articles based on whether I read them or not, or based on keywords, or the author, or anything else. Based on my knowledge, anything that can help me, I can do that with BibDesk. So, it's very good for me. And I do all my writing on TeX so it's good. 
Responding to a comment about Overleaf taking over Yes.
Responding to a comment about Overleaf syncing with Dropbox It's surprising to me that many people use Dropbox while the University has the OneDrive service. Each person has one or two Terabytes of space, but they seldom use that, they use Dropbox.
Responding to a comment about paying for Dropbox Actually Dropbox is more compatible with all operating systems. For me, when I used OneDrive, I could not sync some things on Mac, so I don't… but Overleaf, yeah.
I have, I'm not currently using one. I think people think they can manage without it. I feel like sometimes that's true and sometimes that's not true. I think when some people do a search through the literature, they're not doing like a proper literature review, they're just searching through the literature, so they just kind of find whatever is relevant and then make a note of it somewhere. I don't think people necessarily… I feel like a citation management system might be more useful if you already know you have a large project in mind that needs something like a literature review, but if you're just sort of like, if we're talking about just like staying current, I don't think people necessarily have a system for that. That's my guess as to why. I think our lab used to use RefWorks, but now we don’t. We use the Word in house citation management. A very interesting choice. I know some people would want to use Mendeley, but there's some office politics and so we don't use Mendeley laughter. So I think if I was doing a proper, like if I was going to do my masters and do a proper first, huge literature review-ish, sort of system, I would probably use something like this, or I might just actually use Excel so I can take notes. Because I know, at least in RefWorks, I couldn’t take notes for like, maybe I just didn't know how. I couldn't take notes on like this paper said this kind of thing so I could get back to it. And I don't know, I haven't really used Mendeley or all these other ones either. Maybe they have that, not sure.
Trying to guess what I would have answered to this question, because the answer is yes, but extremely poorly. I use Mendeley, or ostensibly use Mendeley every six months or so I try to I guess sort of restart because I haven’t been able to keep up with it very well. I don’t really use, well that’s not true, I do use LaTeX for historical reasons because prior to all of these other ones I used to collect all the citations that I had ever used in a paper in one single LaTeX file so it was kind of a very manual citation management system. So, I still do use that for sure. 
No, I didn’t use RefWorks. I might have, I don’t remember it being supported while I was here. I’ve been here about fifteen years. So, I don’t remember ever using it. I don’t know how long it’s been. 
Yeah so Mendeley is nice in principle because it sucks in a lot of the metadata. You just must drop the pdf into the window, and it sucks in a lot of the metadata and ostensibly would give you a beautiful citation that you can just cut and paste into whatever paper you’re working on. The reason I really have not used it is that because actually I’m old enough that, I’m not that old, but I’m old enough a lot of the papers in my databases are sort of from that transitional era where you know, papers were first coming out as pdfs, they don’t contain a lot of embedded metadata, or they’re just scans of the original papers. So, I’ve got all these papers in Mendeley, but they have essentially no or incorrect metadata and there’s no way for me to really use Mendeley effectively unless I go into it and manually correct the metadata for all these papers. Which I’m not willing to do. Now I haven’t tried it in a few years, so maybe a lot of this has been done somewhere else, so if I just refresh Mendeley a lot of these fields would be populated. But the big reason that I don’t use Mendeley is because it doesn’t, I mean all the new papers it works fine, that’s no problem, but there’s still enough of a literature there where this did not exist at least the last time I looked at Mendeley closely, that I really can’t use it. It just doesn’t. The amount of effort I would have to put in to make it work is too much. So, I collect papers and I kind of dump them in a folder for Mendeley to look at, but I rarely go back to, to look at them in terms of citations. 
I suspect that’s the case that a few physicists that participated in the survey use citation tools. I mean I don’t know what the demographics of your sample would be, but if there is a population that’s sort of been in academia for more than a decade or so, prior to that time citation managers were not really very useful, or maybe you know I see that LaTeX was very popular, maybe that was for the only way to do it at that time, very manually. But I suspect in the absence of a very thorough historically complete database of that kind of citation metadata is the reason why a lot of people don’t use a citation manager, essentially why I don’t. 
I use them.  I use Mendeley. Oh Yes. 
I use Mendeley. I wanted to say that I believe that it is very good, in my opinion. Yeah, it's kind of subjective and personal but Mendeley is very good. So far, I have been using Mendeley I don’t have any issues and I like it very much …. A little bit of Zotero.  But I didn’t like it. I had some reason I didn’t like it, but I do not remember it. So, I believe that Mendeley suits my needs.
It makes your life easier using citation management systems. I can organize all your data.  You can collect them in PDF format.  You can collect them very nicely and afterwards Mendeley itself offers some interesting articles related to what you are looking for.  It’s not possible? I don’t believe that those guys are not using. 
No I do not use a citation management resource.
So, I have in the past used citation management tools for citations and writing.  So, there’s the LaTeX one, LaTeX. Which was great, fantastic, that’s how I wrote my PhD and without it I don’t how I would have done it.
Because I don’t write the paper from scratch myself.  I’m usually editing something that my student wrote so they might probably be using it.  I hope. but I don't go check back. 
Personally, no I don’t train, nor talk about citation management with my students. Because again, these are physics students and they are way more advanced on making sure that they are using the latest software than I am. And that's what I find usually. So, I don’t. I mean, so far, I haven't had much of an issue with it - like where I see that they're doing it by hand. And when I do things like check references, I don't go and check how they put it. And usually I try to figure out whether they have it or not. And if I don’t, that's their job to put it in and formatted in the right way for the right journal. So how they manage that is not at a level that I check it anymore.
So, when you're looking up articles, where are you storing your articles? Are you storing them on a hard drive? Or you start. Are you printing them and paper and putting them in files when you're reading the literature? How do you keep track of that literature?
Oh, OK. So, I don't print.  for it. I just avoided that. Yeah. So, my way is usually. Yeah. So often I will store links, not even the actual paper itself. I'd rather know where to go in and look it up online.
Exactly I’m not storing the PDF, buy keeping track of the link. So, I have some sort of management system that I can do. I use, I use Google Drive a lot. Yeah. So just through having bookmarks is one way to avoid having to download anything or write folders. I find that the most powerful thing that Google gives to me is great searching.
So, I don’t need to write the citation down I’m not storing it in my head. It's an experience of how to.  So, I’m building up skill sets. So, I'm learning to adapt to a Google search. And I've had now so many years of that, that I feel like it's weirdly efficient. Maybe I'm missing stuff but I haven’t found that. So that kind of skill of searching and I have noticed that apparently that's not something people do a lot of , because when I search for stuff and let’s say my husband is searching for random stuff , yeah , I end up finding things always faster .So I think maybe the research is driving . And of course, my students.  I expect them to be more organized than when I'm right. They should be able to tell me or if I ask them about this paper, remember we talked about it. Do you have it? Can you send it to me? So, there is that management happening. So, I do put a lot of sort of expectation on the students and I want to train them to be independent researchers.  That means they need to know how to find things, they need to know how to manage.  So, if they are doing all that then I don't have to do that. 
I don’t do any explicit teaching or instruction about how to do those things. You don't really know how students are doing it... 
So, one thing I find problematic is that, you know, you mentioned one kind of filter, which is if you have a paper right at the top of the arXiv website that it gets cited. Well, of course the real the real sort of filter that people use is whether they know somebody. The big names get cited disproportionate and big names get published disproportionately. 
And that's a big effect. It's called the Matthew Effect. And it's the idea of someone who's popular or known then they get more and more citations. And if you want to get more citations then that's what you can do too - gaming it.
I don't know if I'd call it maligned to manipulate citations, but I know that there's lots of cases where the popular person may have written a follow up or done some work in a field and that gets cited as the original writer in that field doesn't . I don't think that's because anybody's being a malicious.
So that popular stuff filters to the top, by the way, I do give explicit training to my students. The importance of how to cite. And who to cite as you can just stop because when you found a review article and it's easy because it has all the figures. A lot of people do that. Yeah, we are guilty of that too often.
So that's something that's coming up to write a review and boost citation counts. My own student just did that right. I'm very conflicted. On one hand, I know it will help them. So, On the other, I don't want to keep them from advancing. Yeah. But on the other hand, I'm not gaming the system. It shouldn't be the way that you get your profile. But yeah. So, I think that’s, so I certainly do explicitly train my students about the unfairness of citations. And obviously, I do a lot of explicit training on plagiarism to come up as an issue in my group before. So those are things that. They do get more right? We have discussions about it all the time. Every paper I'm careful to make sure that there's no such issues around it and all the citations are as fair as we can make them. 
I think there is a growing use of blogs. There are a significant number of high-quality scholarly blogs. I think that this is new in the last fifteen years. If you read certain blogs, you will see high profile physicists and mathematicians… some that are fields medalists either writing or commenting on blogs. I monitor physics and mathematics because I’m interested in both. 
Absolutely, I think it is also for a significant number of physicists using, commenting on and reading blogs and social media because you have a high number of physicists commenting, attracting attention, and people are going to look at that. Even Twitter, I don’t do Twitter a whole lot, I have an account, but I don’t really use it, but sometimes I see links to people’s Twitter feeds, and I do check on these. There is high level discussion on these… everybody knows that there’s a whole cesspool of nonsense there as well. I’m not talking about the science specifically, but just in general. There are certain pockets of research and comments, although I don’t check that regularly, I check links to web pages on blogs and Twitter feeds and might comment and say that’s great as an interesting source of information. 
How do I keep it all together? That’s a good question. It’s a bit unorganized. I grew up in libraries. My parents were lower middle class and didn’t have a lot of money, but my parents being immigrants to Canada… valued education. My father took us to the library every Saturday morning where we could borrow as many books as we wanted. I grew up really loving and enjoying libraries. When I was old enough to go to the library myself on my bicycle it was one of my favorite places to be. I still love libraries. I do a fair bit of library browsing… so that is another source of information where I randomly go into the library, look around, and often see things I would never have found by searching a database for something specific. If you’re going for something or walking down that row of stacks…
Serendipity is an information gathering methodology (with laughter). Sometimes it is very interesting. I occasionally run into books, or in the past when journals used to be laid out in reading rooms… You’d be looking for that, but your eyes might catch something else, to find that’s interesting and you start reading that. I still do a fair bit of that. It’s sort of nostalgic. I clearly enjoy doing that occasionally.
No, not oft hand.
I guess the big picture is that everything is going to continue to go more and more online. I've talked to my colleagues, they have not, none of them have been to the library to get a book in like twenty years, a physical book. Unless they need it for teaching or something like that. Or it's an obscure book, sometimes they get it through interlibrary loan, but it's very rare these days, that we physically come here. I don't think I've been in this library for like five years.
I think arXiv did a great job of becoming more and more comprehensive. As a one stop, for everything. 
On the flip side, it's unsorted. So, I think it encourages our natural tendency to filter by names we know, which is powerful, but also dangerous. So, I think, it used to be that if you were trusting some refereed system, like what got into PRL, you would get more excited about papers by people you'd never heard of than you're likely to do if you've got just a screen of hundreds of arXiv articles, unless the title is particularly gripping.
that's true.
Yeah. I wonder what's going to happen in the longer term because it seems to me there's just too much information for the for the ability of anybody to absorb it, and one can't efficiently access it no matter what tools you use. And a lot of effort's been wasted because I'm sure there's massive amounts of duplication.
I keep thinking that the fact that we're still tied to this sort of article model in terms of just length, you know, what's a publishable unit, is a problem. These ideas that, what's his name, Nelsen, had about days where you could publish a paragraph on some Wiki-like thing and get academic credit for that... that should be true. If you read a paper and you realize they missed an important point, nowadays unless you can find a way to write a four or a 10-page paper about that, you don't publish it. 
you can write a comment. 
That's true. Although the process for that is so fraught that I think people usually shy away from a comment.
I feel like that kind of stuff, ought to change. And you're right, there's a lot of duplication. I keep hoping that the way that Google eventually won out for search engines, there will be something that will appear that will work so well that little by little we'll hit a tipping point and academics would just recognize this is the right thing to trust. I picture something that gets rid of all the journals and just allows us to overlay on the arXiv some kind of community rating of how important or interesting do people think these different things are - and things like SciRate tried to do that, I just don't think they've done it well. I don't understand. If you'd asked me 10 years ago, I would've thought by today something would have emerged.
Yeah. I don't see how the refereeing system as it now exists is going to be able to survive because the rate of journals keeps increasing faster than the size of the community does. We can't all spend all our time refereeing articles. 
we get no additional information from the journal name except some level of prestige.
I don't want to search 20 journals to find something. I would like to know, the community kind of gave this paper an A- or something with a mean and a standard deviation, but that's all the information I want other than the title and the subject area. And all of these different journals can be replaced by that. If we could just get that.
It’s what Netflix does right? We should be able to do it 
Well, no, but it's probably a subtle business of getting exactly the right model, you know? And that may take some time before somebody sort of thinks it up or stumbles on it or whatever. 
One of my former students has a startup with these ideas in mind. 
But if you used the Netflix algorithm for papers, you’d just get stuffy Nature and PRL. That would be the stuff that pops up on our screen.
Well, in fact, I guess all of those services have gone the other way, right? They used to ask people to do ratings of one to 10 or whatever, and they discovered people are just too unreliable. Thumbs up, thumbs down, that's all you want people to tell you. And then give them what other people said thumbs up to, and that's the end of the story. That’s not what we want. 
Just one thing that didn't seem to appear here that I think maybe 20 years ago would have appeared would be textbooks. No mention of textbooks or monographs or anything like that. I mean, I still use those quite often. I don't know how to say how much of my time I used on them 
No, but it's for information. Right? If I'm getting into some area that I've not done any work in before, I've got to find a book that will tell me how to do it. Now, sometimes I get that off the web, sometimes I get it at a library, but it's still, it's a different kind of communication than a journal article, even if I pull it off the web. 
Yeah. 
And I'm surprised there was no...
that’s funny right? 
But if I’m really getting into something new, at least for theorists, at some point, you just have to do that. You have to find a good monograph that will tell you this stuff. 
Obviously not only for teaching, but also just my new graduate students will turn to them on certain things. But I'm wondering when, the last time I turned to a textbook to learn something new… 
well, monographs 
I know. I understand what you mean. Yeah, and maybe it's just I don’t learn enough new things. I'm just too lazy about reading. I mean, I turn to my old textbooks to relearn things that I should've known and maybe once knew, but then that's a different issue.
Quite often, at least in terms of theory, you will get a flurry of papers on some new topic. And the papers will be very confused because people are trying to figure something out, you know? And they haven't got to figure it out yet. It's all confused. But after about five years, it'll settle down and somebody will write a book, and if it's a good person, that book is very powerful because it opens that material up to the next generation of students.
Very often doesn't a review paper or review chapter or something….? 
Yeah. But a book is thicker. It's tends to be larger than most of the review. 
That's exactly why I was… winning that negatively! 
Not all, but sometimes you, you know 
Responding to a comment about format preferences For me, yeah, I prefer an online version, electronic versions. Because it's environmentally friendly, it’s more convenient to read them, and if you have some accessibility needs you can modify it on your laptop, the screen. But sometimes some are very old, so if you want to check something, you need the print. 
Responding to a comment about older journals being scanned Yes, for the journals, the articles. But, for example, I have several times contacted the library for some books. If I need to check a chapter or some data in a book I don't have, I would request those.  
I think it's interesting that it said that the students feel like they're not keeping up to date with the literature. Because I feel like, from my experience, I feel like people think that they are, when they are not necessarily doing it. So, I don’t know, I thought that was kind of interesting. And kind of what I was talking about recently, just now about kind of the difference between searching through literature versus a literature review, like I didn't know that there was sort of a difference in that until recently. I don't think, from what I know, I don't think a lot of physicists have done, or really know what the difference between those two things are. And so I think that might actually inform whether or not, um, I feel like once you know actually the scope of a proper literature review is, then you might have more of an answer like the size of the problem, I don't quite remember how that was phrased, but I liked that for that reason. I think that's kind of my thoughts on it.
Not really except to say maybe that it would be… finding information about, information sorry, finding information about efficient information gathering techniques is maybe something that you know physicists could use a bit more training on. Here I’m just thinking of the fact that it’s changed so much since, since when I started which was you know just slightly pre-internet when you would literally go and haul the giant paper book off the shelf which told you all the papers which were published in 1947 and you had to go through the titles and abstracts if they had them and try and find something you remember reading six months ago. Through you know all the different revolutions to the point where now it’s almost completely entirely online but maybe still not quite. So, I think that sort of the training, the training of physicists, at least in the program that we’re running here at Name, doesn’t really have a specific component dedicated to, you know, information seeking. I think the disconnect between physicists and the library you know writ-large is growing. There’s a tendency to just try to throw something into Google Scholar without maybe understanding the sort of the underlying structure of the data sort of. All the things that you would learn by walking into the library and browsing through the shelves, and going on, and sort of by osmosis pick up some information about the way things are structured and things like that. And that doesn’t exist as much now, because of the power of the search engine. But at the same time, I’m not sure just throwing things into the search engine is really, I mean it improves information seeking at some level. But at other levels just sort of widens the distance, widens the gap between the information user and the information sources. I think that can’t be good. So, I don’t know exactly what this means, but some sort of training for physicists at all levels as to how to make best use of the ever-increasing amounts of information that are available would really be valuable. I have no idea how that, what that would look like or what the best way to do that would be, is, but I do get the impression that that link, which really should be you know extremely close, I mean those two parties, you know, the scientists and the librarians, are really very intimately connected, but the gap seems to be getting wider rather than narrower. I don’t know how one would fix that, but I think that could really be very helpful.  
I think it’s important to know what’s out there.  I don’t want to do something that someone has done previously, so I would like to know what’s published before tackling, attacking that direction which I’m thinking.  
So, I'd say that it’s. I choose my topics based on what interested me, but weirdly. Yes, you're right that I am relieved when it's a topic that is not as popular. It is not the reason I’m picking those things.
So much stress not to be scooped in competitive research areas. Anyway, in what do we do? I don't want one more stress to have to run that race at the same time.  So that in that sense, yes. And now I'm exploring areas of research that are way bigger and more competitive.  Like quantum cryptography which is super-hot. And that to me is much more stressful and I’m not sure I enjoy it as much.   I don't know if that means that I will stop doing it because it interests me.  But I’ll do it to the level that I think it's them just now. But I do it to the level of interest and the pace that I am comfortable with.  I'm luckily in a situation and I don't have to feel pressured into somehow speeding up just because of it.  I feel bad for my students if they feel that pressure.  But I don't like to have to lower my standards of what the bar is for publication or how much we want to push it and things like this.  Which you often must do if you're in a very competitive environment. I refuse to make that compromise.  And it will hurt me, and it has hurt me in the past where I have published less and because of that I have been scooped. But I'm not going to take that on.  That's just a decision I made.
